## Patent Reference

- Title: Method for identifying chromosomal dimensional instability such as homologous repair defects in next generation sequencing data of low coverage
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN116194995A/en

### Abstract

Abstract The genomic data analyzer may be configured to detect and characterize the presence of genomic instability in a tumor sample using a machine learning model, such as a trained convolutional neural network. Genomic data analyzers can use whole genome sequencing reads as input data, even at low sequencing coverage in high throughput sequencing workflows often employed in various clinical oncology settings. The genomic data analyzer may arrange the aligned read data coverage from the chromosome arms or whole chromosomes to form an array of coverage data signals, possibly in the form of an image. The trained machine learning model may process the coverage data signal array to determine whether chromosomal dimensional instability (CSI), such as genomic instability caused by homologous repair or recombination defects (HRDs), is present in the tumor sample. The latter indication may guide the selection of a preferred anti-cancer treatment for the tumor.

### Description

Description Method for identifying chromosomal dimensional instability such as homologous repair defects in next generation sequencing data of low coverageTechnical Field The methods described herein relate generally to genomic analysis and, more particularly, to the use of genomic information in the detection and treatment of cancer. Background Tumor genomics as predictor of anticancer therapy response In addition to inherent germ line mutations, cancer cells often carry large-scale aberrations in the chromosome of somatic cells, such as copy number variations, duplications, or deletions of certain alleles or genomic regions. Some of these variants may result in loss of some genomic functions, such as tumor suppression mechanisms, particularly homologous recombination repair (HRR or HR) functions, thereby rendering the cancer more aggressive. The identification of these genomic mutations is of critical importance in recent advances in personalized cancer drug therapy, as they have been demonstrated to be predictive of the response of subjects with cellular hyperproliferation to certain anti-cancer therapies. The subject may be a human or an animal. Examples of anti-cancer therapies include alkylating agents such as, but not limited to, platinum-based chemotherapeutic agents, carboplatin, cisplatin, iproplatin, nedaplatin, oxaliplatin, picoplatin, nitrogen mustard, chlorambucil, melphalan, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, estramustine, carmustine, lomustine, fotemustine, streptozotocin, busulfan, pipobroman, procarbazine, dacarbazine, thiotepa, temozolomide, and/or other antineoplastic platinum complex compounds; DNA damaging agents or radiation; anthracyclines such as, but not limited to, epirubicin or doxorubicin; topoisomerase I inhibitors such as, but not limited to, camptothecins, topotecan, irinotecan; and/or PARP (poly ADP-ribose polymerase) inhibitors. Examples of PARP inhibitors that selectively destroy cancer cells using tumor DNA Homology Repair Defects (HRDs) are: olaparib, lu Kapa, nilaparib (MK 4827) and talazapanib (BMN-673), which have been approved for use in certain cancer types in the United states and Europe; other examples of PARP inhibitors include: iniparib (iniparib), CEP 9722 (-14-methoxy-9- [ (4-methylpiperazin-1-yl) methyl ] -9, 19-diazapentacyclo [10.7.0.0 {2,6}.0 {7,11}.0 {13,18} ] nineteen-1 (12), 2 (6), 7 (11), 13 (18), 14, 16-hexene-8, 10-dione), 3-aminobenzamide, verapiri (velapirib), pa Mi Pali (Pamiparib) or E7016 (10- ((4-hydroxypiperidin-1-yl) methyl) chromen [4,3,2-de ] phthalazin-3 (2H) -one. PARP inhibitors indirectly induce a large number of DNA Double Strand Breaks (DSBs), which prevent the development of HRD tumor cells, whereas normal cells are generally able to repair these breaks by HR (Keung et al 2019,Journal of Clinical Medicine 8 (4), p.435). HRD genomic analysis test Thus, a method of classifying a DNA sample (e.g., a sample from a tumor) may be useful in diagnosing a likely type of cancer or, due to genomic sequencing and analysis, may be most suitable for cancer treatment based on the severely distorted nature of DNA copy number in a patient's tumor sample. In particular, determining whether cancer is a Homologous Repair Defect (HRD) may be a considerable aid to treatment planning. In the last decade, different genomic mutation characteristics have been identified for this purpose. European patent EP2609216B1 discloses the use of global chromosome aberration fraction (GCAS) to predict the outcome of anti-cancer treatments such as PARP inhibitors, radiation therapy or chemotherapy including platinum-based chemotherapeutics. European patent EP2817630B1 proposes to detect the number of Telomere Allelic Imbalance (TAI) events and to select a platinum-containing therapy if the number is higher than a reference value for a similar cancer known to be platinum-resistant. European patent EP2859118B1 to Style, ma Nihe Bowa, incorporated by the Curie institute and INSERM discloses a method of predicting HRD by counting the number of fragments spanning at least 3 megabases per genome, which correspond to large scale conversion of chromosome copy number (LST). European patent EP2794907B1 to Abkevich et al from Myriad Genetics discloses counting the total number of heterozygosity Loss (LOH) regions longer than 11 megabases but shorter than the entire chromosome in at least one pair of human chromosomes and comparing that number to a reference value to predict patient responses to various possible cancer treatments; EP2981624B1 discloses the use of LOH, TAI and LST indices, whereas EP3180447B1 discloses combining their values into HRD scores, which are compared to reference values to predict patient responses to various possible cancer treatments. The latter assay is currently being used by Myriad Genetics myChoice CDx to determine HRD for testing ovarian cancer patients, employing targeted enrichment based on custom hybridization over a number of genes with a median coverage of at least 500X. Such HRD scores have also recently been shown to be a possible prognostic predictor of progression in High Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer (HGSOC) (Takaya et al, 'Homologous recombination deficiency status-based classification of high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma', nature Research Scientific Reports (2020) 10:2757). Similar to the Myriad mycchoice assay, the commercial assay FoundationFocus CDxBRCALOH of Foundation Medicine specifically analyzes the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes to determine whether an ovarian cancer patient will respond to Lu Kapa Nib (a PARP inhibitor) therapy. The latter assay also used custom capture of all coding exons of many genes based on hybridization with a median coverage of 500X, but only used LOH scores assessed from a small allele fraction combination of whole genome copy number features and SNPs. HRD analysis method of WGS data More generally, WO2017191074 proposes characterizing HRD status of tumor DNA samples based on calculated probability scores from analyzing different genomic changes, including base substitutions, rearrangements and blotting characteristics (HRDetect scores). Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) has proven to be a possible method of detecting HRD with a sensitivity of 98.7% by HRDetect score from the latter, as described in 'HRDetect is apredictor of BRCA and BRCA2 deficiency based on mutational signatures', h.davies et al, nature Medicine, published online at 3/13 in 2017. When compared to WGS, the sensitivity of HRDetect was significantly reduced, between 46.8% and 73%, depending on the specific tuning of the bioinformatics algorithm, when only Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) was applied. In addition to breast and ovarian cancers, as in 'Genomic aberration based molecular signatures efficiently characterize homologous recombination deficiency in prostate cancer', sztupinszki et al have recently also begun to study the use of LOH, TAI and LST as indicators of HRD signature n prostate tumors (scarHRD) in WGS and WES data. Since the above methods all rely on invocation of SNV and/or INDEL, they require high depth of coverage (typically at least 30X) in Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) workflows. The high coverage requirements in WGS and large samples greatly increase the cost of analysis in clinical practice, including the overhead of wet laboratory experiments and dry laboratory data processing. Thus, alternative methods using low-flux WGS (LP-WGS-1 x to 5 x) or even ultra-low-flux WGS (ULP-WGS-down to 0.1 x) may be more beneficial to clinical oncology. In 'ShallowhRD: detection of Homologous Recombination Deficiency from shallow Whole Genome Sequencing', bioinformation, apr 21 2020,Eeckhoutte et al, shallowhRD is described, which is a software method of characterizing LST states, similar to the methods of Manie, stern and Pova, but specifically for shallow WGS data, coverage is as low as about 1. Their method only uses counts of copy number changes in the chromosome arm. This count can be estimated as the number of large scale transitions between adjacent segments of at least 10Mb after removal of segments of less than 3Mb in the coverage data signal. Fewer than 15 switches were able to identify HRD negative tumors, while more than 19 switches were able to identify HRD positive tumors, with similar sensitivity and specificity to the scarHRD method of the prior art. While this approach offers promise for using more cost-effective NGS workflows in clinical oncology, we note that its sensitivity is still lower than that achieved by HRDetect and measurement of LST indicators on SNP arrays. This is probably due to its inability to integrate LOH and TAI features in prior art methods. Furthermore, it is only possible to classify tumors that have changed chromosomes so much and frequently that they cause over ten large-scale transformations, irrespective of how these transformations are distributed in each chromosome arm on the one hand and between the multiple chromosomes of the human genome on the other hand. Recent studies in oncology have shown that high mutability of dysfunctional DNA may cause heterogeneous changes in different regions of the chromosome. In 'Regulation of mitotic recombination between DNA repeats in centromeres', nucleic Acids Research,2017, vol.45, no.19, zafaset et al, in 'The dark side of centromeres, types, causes and consequences of structural abnormalities implicating centromeric DNA', barrea et al, nature Communications (2018) 9:4340, barrea et al reported that in cancer cell lines derived from colorectal and adenocarcinoma, a significant proportion of chromosomal rearrangements and breaks were observed, possibly due to the inherent fragility of the centromeric region in the tumor, which is also common in other cancers. Barra et al emphasize the lack of models and techniques to explicitly analyze the highly repetitive sequences of these regions. Thus, there is a need for improved genomic analysis methods that can be easily, cost effectively deployed in automated NGS workflows of routine oncology clinical practice while accommodating recent cancer genomic findings, particularly the promising findings of spatial features of certain chromosomal aberrations in the tumor genome. There is a particular need for improved genomic analysis methods that integrate recent cancer genomic findings and allow for the identification of features, including HRD, related to diagnosis, prognosis, treatment selection and patient management. Preferably, these methods and techniques may also be adapted with lower coverage to reduce overall analysis costs in conventional clinical settings while maintaining reasonable accuracy in detecting HR events as compared to the prior art. Furthermore, improved genomic analysis methods may also facilitate characterization of HR deficient tumors by employing machine learning techniques rather than relying on explicit measurements and thresholds of scalar HRD indicators such as LOH, LST or TAI indicators in the prior art, thereby allowing more and more clinical data to be more readily utilized to classify tumors of various cancers in humans and animals. Disclosure of Invention A method of determining the state of Homologous Recombination Defect (HRD) in a DNA sample of a subject is presented, the method comprising: obtaining a set of whole genome sequencing reads of a subject DNA sample to be analyzed, comparing the sequencing reads of the set of subject DNA sample to a reference genome, wherein the reference genome is divided into a plurality of bins (bins), each bin belonging to the same genomic region of a chromosome arm in a whole genome chromosome to be analyzed, calculating and normalizing the values of the comparison reads along each bin of each chromosome arm to obtain coverage signals of the chromosome arm, arranging the coverage signals of the chromosome arms into a coverage data signal array of the subject DNA sample, inputting the coverage data signal array into a trained machine learning model, wherein the model has been trained by using a set of samples of known homologous recombination defect states to distinguish the coverage data signal array from samples positive for homologous recombination defect states from the coverage data signal array from samples negative for homologous recombination defect states, thereby determining a homology recombination defect score (HRD score) for the subject DNA sample, and determining a positive HRD defect score for the subject or a different HRD defect score for the trained machine learning DNA sample. In a possible embodiment, the set of sequencing reads may be obtained from whole genome sequencing, wherein the read depth coverage is at most 30x; alternatively, the set of sequencing reads may be obtained from low throughput whole genome sequencing, wherein the read depth coverage is at least 0.1X and at most 5X. In a possible embodiment, calculating and normalizing the values of the alignment readings in each bin along each chromosome arm to obtain a coverage signal for the chromosome arm may include normalizing the coverage signal for each sample and/or normalizing by GC content to apply GC-offset correction. In a possible embodiment, the coverage signals of the chromosome arms may be arranged as one-dimensional coverage data signal vectors or two-dimensional coverage data signal images. In a possible embodiment, the coverage signals of the chromosome arms may be arranged into a two-dimensional coverage data signal image by row-wise comparing the coverage data signal of each chromosome with the centromere region of each chromosome arm, i.e. the nearest region adjacent to the centromere region of the chromosome arm. In a possible embodiment, the machine learning model may be pre-trained using a set of tumor data samples with known homologous recombination defect states as training tags. The training data set may be enhanced with artificial sample data generated by combining the data of the chromosomes of the data sample with known homologous recombination defect state tags. The data enhancement samples may be generated to represent the purity-to-ploidy ratio distribution observed in the real sample dataset. In a possible embodiment, the reference genome may be divided into a first set of up to 100kbp blocks and further comprising the step of collapsing the 100kbp blocks into a second set of at least 500kbp larger blocks before arranging the coverage signal on each chromosome arm. The blocks of the first set of blocks may have a uniform size of up to 100kbp, while the blocks of the second set of blocks may have a size of 2.5 to 3.5Mbp and are obtained by pooling 25 to 35 blocks of 100kbp in the first set of blocks. An in vitro method of determining the state of Homologous Recombination Defects (HRD) in a DNA sample of a patient is presented, the method comprising: -providing a DNA fragment from a patient sample; -constructing a library comprising said fragments overlapping a set of chromosomes; -sequencing the library to achieve a whole genome sequencing coverage of at most 30X, preferably to achieve a genome sequencing coverage of at least 0.1X and at most 5X; and determining the HRD status of the patient sample based on analysis of the trained machine learning model obtained according to the methods disclosed herein. The diseased DNA sample may be tumor extracellular free DNA (cfDNA), fresh Frozen Tissue (FFT), or formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) sample. The HRD score or HRD status of the patient sample may be a predictor of tumor response to a cancer treatment regimen. The cancer treatment regimen may be selected from the group consisting of alkylating agents, platinum-based chemotherapeutic agents, carboplatin, cisplatin, iproplatin, nedaplatin, oxaliplatin, picoplatin, nitrogen mustard, chlorambucil, melphalan, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, estramustine, carmustine, lomustine, fotemustine, streptozotocin, busulfan, pipobromine, procarbazine, thiotepa, temozolomide, and/or other antineoplastic platinum complex compounds, DNA damaging agents, radiation-therapeutic agents, anthracyclines, epirubicin, doxorubicin; topoisomerase I inhibitors, camptothecins, topotecan, irinotecan, PARP (poly ADP-ribose polymerase) inhibitors, olapanib, lu Kapa, nilaparib, tazopanib, irinotecan, CEP 9722, MK 4827, BMN-673, 3-aminobenzamide, verapiri, pamil or E7016. A method of selecting a cancer patient for treatment with a platinum chemotherapeutic agent, a DNA damaging agent, an anthracycline, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor is presented, comprising the step of detecting that a tumor patient sample is HRD positive according to the methods disclosed herein. In possible embodiments, the patient may have a cancer selected from the group consisting of high grade serous ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer, or pancreatic cancer. A method of training a machine learning algorithm to determine a Homologous Recombination Defect (HRD) status of a subject DNA sample is presented, the method comprising inputting to the machine learning supervised training algorithm a coverage data signal array from samples known to be positive for homologous recombination defect status and a coverage data signal array from samples known to be negative for homologous recombination defect status. The trained machine learning model may be a random forest model, a neural network model, a deep learning classifier, or a convolutional neural network model. Neural network model the trained machine learning model may be a convolutional neural network trained to produce at its output a single-labeled binary classification of positive or negative HRD states, or a single-labeled multi-class classification of positive, negative or indeterminate HRD states, or a scalar HRD score representing HRD states. The machine learning model may be trained in semi-supervised mode using data enhancement sets generated from sampling data from chromosomes sharing a set of real samples of the same HRD states and the same normalized purity and ploidy ratios. A method for characterizing a DNA sample is presented, the method comprising obtaining a set of sequencing reads from a patient sample that are aligned with the reference genome; dividing base pair positions (bp) of at least two chromosomes of a reference genome into a set of tiles, each tile corresponding to a genomic region of up to 20 megabyte pairs (20 mbps), each tile containing coverage data from only a single chromosome arm; estimating coverage data for each patch of sequenced patient samples from the aligned readings; arranging coverage data into a multi-dimensional array comprising a chromosome or chromosome arm along one dimension and a set of blocks of said chromosome or chromosome arm along another dimension, characterized in that centromere blocks or telomere blocks of each chromosome or chromosome arm are arranged into a spatial arrangement of the multi-dimensional array; inputting the multi-dimensional array into a trained machine learning model; and generating a Chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) indicator at an output of the trained machine learning model. In a possible embodiment, the CSI indicator may be an indicator of a high (hrd+) or low (HRD-) likelihood that the patient sample has a Homologous Recombination (HR) defect. The patient sample may be a tumor sample and the CSI indicator of the patient sample may be a predictor of tumor response to a cancer treatment regimen comprising a platinum-based chemotherapeutic agent, a DNA damaging agent, an anthracycline, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, or a PARP inhibitor. In one embodiment, the machine learning model is trained in a supervised or semi-supervised mode by using coverage data from markers of samples with known genomic instability states, such as HRD states (positive or negative). In one embodiment, the Chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) indicator of genomic instability is based on a difference between a DNA sample having genomic instability in at least one region of at least one chromosome arm in the one DNA sample and another DNA sample having no genomic instability in at least one region of at least one chromosome arm in the other DNA sample, which may be learned by a machine learning model. In a possible embodiment, the first set of tiles may be further collapsed into larger tiles by adjusting the size of the larger tiles relative to the length of each chromosome arm prior to arranging the multi-dimensional array such that the tile size remains constant along the chromosome arm. The first set of tiles may have a uniform size of at most 100kbp, while the collapsed tiles may have a size of at least 500 kbp. The coverage data may be normalized and/or partitioned to infer discrete copy numbers prior to arranging the multi-dimensional array. In a possible implementation, the empty elements of the multi-dimensional array may be filled with the values of the nearest blocks or predetermined values. In a possible embodiment, the trained machine learning model may be a random forest model or a neural network model, such as a convolutional neural network, trained to produce a single-labeled binary classification of positive or negative CSI states, or a single-labeled multi-class classification of positive, negative or indeterminate CSI states, or scalar HRD scores representing CSI states, at its output. The patient samples may be tumor samples and the machine learning model may be trained in a supervised or semi-supervised mode using a set of real samples labeled with CSI status according to the target application. In a possible embodiment, the CSI status tag may be an HRD status according to the HRDetect method and/or using artificial samples generated by sampling a set of chromosomes sharing the same HRD status and having real samples of similar tumor content. The artificial sample may be selected to recreate the same purity-ploidy profile as the real sample dataset. In one particular embodiment, the patient sample may be a tumor sample, and the machine learning model may be trained in a supervised or semi-supervised mode by using marker data with HRD states. The training data may consist of coverage data obtained from clinical samples with HRD states and arranged in a multi-dimensional array. Training data tags may be obtained from HRD detection methods, such as the HRDetect method. In one particular embodiment, a data enhancement strategy that accounts for bias introduced by sample specific properties (such as purity and ploidy) can be used to increase the diversity and number of multidimensional arrays used to train machine learning algorithms. Drawings FIG. 1 illustrates a next generation sequencing system according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure. Fig. 2 illustrates a genomic analysis workflow according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure. Fig. 3 schematically illustrates a possible implementation of the low coverage data preparation preprocessing workflow, including collapsing and smoothing small coverage patches into large patches to better demonstrate more specific spatial events observable along different chromosome arms. Fig. 4 depicts an example of normalized read coverage data signals along 22 non-sex chromosomes in a human DNA sample, which may be initially measured with a first set of small block bits in the coverage data signals of a low-pass whole genome sequencing experiment. Fig. 5 depicts an example of a normalized read coverage data signal that can be calculated from coverage data signal fig. 4 using a second set of larger bins. Figure 6 shows the complete set of human genome chromosomes aligned to their centromere regions (see x-axis for details), and their respective p-arm and q-arm chromosome arm lengths (y-axis). Fig. 7 illustrates normalized coverage data spatially rearranged into a two-dimensional matrix of chromosomes arranged in rows and coverage blocks arranged in columns such that the centromere blocks are vertically arranged in a single column prior to chromosome spatial instability analysis, wherein a) HRD negative tumor DNA samples, and b) HRD positive tumor DNA samples, according to certain embodiments of the proposed coverage data preparation method. Fig. 8 schematically shows the internal data workflow architecture of a possible chromosome spatial instability analyzer (e.g. for HRD status analysis). Fig. 9 shows a possible architecture of a convolutional neural network according to some embodiments of the proposed CSI analyzer data processing module. Fig. 10 a) and 10 b) show normalized coverage data for 2 samples of 560 breast cancer genome database. Fig. 11 shows normalized coverage data for 22 non-sex chromosomes for 202 BAM file samples from the 560 breast cancer genome database. Fig. 12 compares the HRD score method of the prior art with the HRDetect score of the proposed CSI index classifier. Fig. 13 plots the results of a series of 69 HRD scores, proposed CSI index scores, and HRDetect scores for test samples with different BRCA deletions (possibly related to HR deletions). Fig. 14 shows an exemplary comparison of coverage signal images for each chromosome arm (p-arm and q-arm) from at least two exemplary chromosomes (chromosome a and chromosome B) analyzed relative to at least one region adjacent to the centromere region or one region adjacent to the telomere region. Panel A is a coverage signal image of each chromosome arm (p-arm and q-arm) of at least two exemplary analysis chromosomes (chromosome A and chromosome B), with a dotted rectangle being the region adjacent to the telomere region and a vertical stripe rectangle being the region adjacent to the centromere region; the picture B is the comparison of coverage signal images with respect to the area adjacent to the centromere region; picture C is the comparison of coverage signal images with respect to blocks adjacent to telomere regions; the image D is the comparison of coverage signal images with respect to the region adjacent to the centromere region; picture E is an alignment of the coverage signal image with respect to the region adjacent to the telomere region. Fig. 15 shows exemplary output data obtained from combined lpWGS and directional acquisition as described in example 2. Figure 15A shows the raw coverage obtained from NGS data generated in a workflow combining low pass WGS (lpWGS) and targeted sequencing, calculated at 100kB intervals. For illustration purposes, the original coverage of the genomic region enriched in the targeting experiment is represented by the empty label, while the lpWGS region is represented by the solid label. Fig. 15B shows the arrangement of mapping readings in the non-target (lpWGS only) region (left, B1 of fig. 15B) and target (capture enrichment) region (right, B2 of fig. 15B). Fig. 15C shows normalized coverage limited to the lpWGS region only (left panel, C1 of fig. 15C), and the allele fraction of variants identified at the capture enrichment region (right panel, C2 of fig. 15C). Fig. 16 shows the preparation of an artificial sample as described in example 3. Panel A shows normalized coverage (Y-axis) across the genome (X-axis, normalized coverage map) of 3 original tumor samples randomly selected to generate an artificial sample. The tumor content (or purity, T), ploidy (P), and Purity Ploidy Ratio (PPR) of each sample are plotted above the corresponding normalized coverage map of the sample. Panel B shows the normalized coverage map of the samples after dilution in a computer (in-silico) to match the lowest PPR observed in the original samples of the group, and panel C shows the normalized coverage map of the artificial samples assembled by combining the data of the diluted sample coverage map. The color of the normalized coverage points of the original, diluted and artificial samples is preserved. Detailed Description The present disclosure is based at least in part on the following findings: the machine learning training analyzer of the present disclosure aims to process tumor sample sequencing data coverage related to underlying chromosomal arrangement, and can extract indices of general Chromosomal Spatial Instability (CSI), particularly indices of Homologous Repair Defect (HRD) status of tumor samples. The proposed method and system will now be described by reference to more detailed embodiments. The proposed method and system may, however, be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope to those skilled in the art. Definition of the definition 'DNA sample' refers to a nucleic acid sample from an organism, such as may be extracted from a solid tumor or fluid. The organism may be a human, animal, plant, fungus or microorganism. Nucleic acids can be found in solid samples, such as Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded (FFPE) samples. In addition, nucleic acids can also be found in limited amounts or in low concentrations, such as circulating tumor DNA in blood or plasma. 'DNA fragment' refers to a short DNA fragment resulting from fragmentation of high molecular weight DNA. Fragmentation may occur naturally in the sample organism or may be artificially generated by DNA fragmentation methods applied to DNA samples, for example by mechanical shearing, sonication, enzymatic fragmentation and other methods. After fragmentation, the DNA fragments may undergo end repair to ensure that each molecule possesses a blunt end. To increase ligation efficiency, adenine may be added at each 3' blunt end of fragmented DNA, enabling DNA fragments to be ligated to adaptors with complementary dT-overhangs. 'DNA product' refers to an engineered DNA fragment produced by manipulation, extension, ligation, doubling, amplification, replication, editing, and/or cleavage of a DNA fragment to adapt it to a next generation sequencing workflow. 'DNA adaptor product' refers to a DNA product produced by ligating a DNA fragment with a DNA adaptor to make it compatible with the next generation sequencing workflow. 'DNA library' refers to a collection of DNA products or DNA linker products to make the DNA fragments compatible with the next generation sequencing workflow. 'pool' refers to multiple DNA samples (e.g., 48 samples, 96 samples, or more) from the same or different organisms, which samples can be multiplexed into a single high throughput sequencing analysis. Each sample can be identified in the pool by a unique sample bar code. 'nucleotide sequence' or 'polynucleotide sequence' refers to any polymer or oligomer of nucleotides such as cytosine (represented by the letter C in the sequence string), thymine (represented by the letter T in the sequence string), adenine (represented by the letter A in the sequence string), guanine (represented by the letter G in the sequence string), and uracil (represented by the letter U in the sequence string). It may be DNA or RNA, or a combination thereof. It may be permanently or temporarily present in single-stranded or double-stranded form. Unless otherwise indicated, nucleic acid sequences are written in a 5 'to 3' direction from left to right. 'amplification' refers to a polynucleotide amplification reaction to produce multiple polynucleotide sequences that are replicated from one or more parent sequences. Amplification may be produced by various methods, such as Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), linear polymerase chain reaction, nucleic acid sequence based amplification, rolling circle amplification, and other methods. 'sequencing' refers to the reading of a sequence of nucleotides from a DNA library to produce a set of sequencing reads that can be processed by a bioinformatics computer in a bioinformatics workflow. High Throughput Sequencing (HTS) or Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) refers to real-time parallel sequencing of multiple sequences, typically between 50 and several kilobase pairs per sequence. Typical NGS technologies include Illumina, ion Torrent Systems, oxford Nanopore Technologies, complete Genomics, pacific Biosciences, BGI, and other corporate technologies. Depending on the actual technology, NGS sequencing may require sample preparation with sequencing adaptors or primers to facilitate further sequencing steps, as well as amplification steps, in order to sequence multiple instances of a single parent molecule, for example, by PCR amplification prior to delivery to a flow cell in the case of sequencing by synthesis. 'depth of sequencing' or 'sequencing coverage' or 'depth of sequencing' refers to the number of times a genome is sequenced. In the target enrichment workflow, only a small portion of the region of interest in the entire genome is sequenced, so it may be reasonable to increase the sequencing depth without facing too much overhead in data storage and data processing. In some genomic analysis applications that do not require high resolution along the genome, such as in detecting copy number changes, low-pass (LP) coverage (1 x-10 x) or even ultra low-pass (ULP) coverage (< 1 x-not all positions sequenced) may be more efficient in terms of information technology infrastructure costs, but these workflows require more complex bioinformatics methods and techniques to process less reliable data input from sequencers and aligners. In addition, in addition to the higher costs associated with data storage and processing, there is a need to optimize the operational costs of experimental NGS runs by balancing the depth of coverage with the number of samples that may be detected in parallel in a conventional clinical workflow, i.e., loading a sequencer with samples for sequencing. In fact, the total number of reads that can be made by the next generation sequencer in one experiment (i.e., in a given run) remains limited. The lower the coverage, the fewer reads per sample for genomic analysis, and the greater the number of samples that can be multiplexed in the next generation sequencing run. 'alignment' or 'aligner' refers to the mapping and alignment of sequencing reads to reference genomic sequences, base by base, in a bioinformatics workflow, depending on the application. For example, in targeted enrichment applications, sequencing reads are expected to map to specific targeted genomic regions based on hybridization capture probes used during experimental amplification, and the alignment can be searched specifically with respect to corresponding sequences defined by genomic coordinates, such as chromosome number, start position, and end position in the reference genome. As is known in bioinformatics practice, in some embodiments, the 'alignment' methods employed herein may also include certain pretreatment steps to facilitate mapping of sequencing reads and/or remove irrelevant data from reads, such as by removing unpaired reads, and/or by trimming linker sequences as the ends of reads, and/or other read pretreatment filtration means. Exemplary bioinformatic data representation methods with different coordinate systems (absolute or relative position index, 0-based or 1-based, etc.) include BED format, GTF format, GFF format, SAM format, BAM format, VCF format, BCF format, toggle format, genomics range format, BLAST format, genBank/EMBL feature table format, and others. 'coverage' or 'sequence read coverage' or 'read coverage' refers to the number of sequencing reads aligned with a genomic location or a set of genomic locations. In general, genomic regions with higher coverage are associated with higher reliability in downstream genomic characterization, particularly when calling variants. 'region (Bin)', 'genomic fragment', 'partition', 'genomic portion' or 'chromosomal portion' refers to a contiguous region of interest in the genome. Since such regions may include variants, a block generally refers to a location or region of the genome, and not to an immobilized DNA sequence. In bioinformatics methods and processes, a block can be identified by its start and end genomic coordinates along a reference genome, and the length of the block can be measured in base numbers (b, kb, mb) or base pairs (bp, kbp, mbp) from the start to the end coordinates. In general, a block may correspond to an entire chromosome, a fragment of a reference genome, a portion of multiple chromosomes, a portion of multiple chromosomes, and/or combinations thereof. Preferably, a block is a portion of a chromosome obtained by dividing a reference genome into genome portions (e.g., by size, fragments, contiguous regions of arbitrarily defined size, etc.). The genomic portion may be selected, classified, filtered, and/or removed from consideration using any suitable criteria known in bioinformatics. The blocks may be of the same, uniform length or of different, variable lengths along the genome. 'coverage block count' or 'coverage count' or 'count' refers to the number of sequencing reads or end-of-end reads (representing DNA fragments) that are mapped to or partially overlap a block. The count may be derived from mapping or aligning some or all of the original sequence reads and/or the pre-processed sequence reads to (i.e., related to) the genomic portion. According to various bioinformatics methods known in the art, some sets of readings may be weighted, removed, filtered, normalized, adjusted, collapsed, combined, added and/or subtracted, or processed by a combination thereof, in units of readings or in units of peer readings prior to counting. In some implementations, the count may be related to an uncertainty or quality value. In some embodiments, the readings or peer readings may not be contained entirely within a single block, but rather overlap within two adjacent blocks; in this case, the readings may be calculated within the block with the greatest overlap. 'coverage data signal' or 'coverage data signal array' refers to a collection of blocks associated with respective counts, which may be arranged in a one-dimensional vector (thereby obtaining a coverage signal vector or coverage signal array or one-dimensional heat map), a two-dimensional matrix (thereby obtaining a coverage signal matrix or coverage signal image or two-dimensional heat map), or any suitable topology. The coverage data signal may optionally be normalized to eliminate technical bias. The coverage data signal array may be arranged in a two-dimensional representation, referred to herein as a coverage data signal image or coverage data signal multi-dimensional array. 'chromosome arm' refers to either of two parts (arms) of a chromosome that are bound to each other by a centromere of the chromosome. The p arm refers to the shortest arm and the q arm refers to the longest arm. Each arm terminates with a telomere. In the intermediate centromere chromosome, the p-arm and q-arm are similar in size. In the sub-intermediate centromere chromosome, the p-arm is shorter than the q-arm. In the proximal centromere chromosome, the p-arm is very short. In the chromosome of the telomere, the p-arm is no longer present or short enough to be visible when the chromosome is examined. Normal cells in humans do not carry terminal centromere chromosomes; however, they may be found in certain tumor cells. 'region of a centromere' or 'centromere region' of a chromosome refers to the region of the centromere immediately adjacent to the chromosome. The 'centromere region' of the chromosome coverage data signal refers to the region of coverage of the region closest to the centromere region in the set of coverage regions associated with the chromosome arm. At most, there may be two centromere blocks associated with genome coverage data for any given human chromosome: along the sequencing data genome coordinate system, one to the left of the centromere and one to the right of the centromere. 'telomere region' of a chromosome refers to the region next to the telomere of a chromosome. A 'telomere block' of a chromosome coverage data signal refers to the coverage block closest to either of the two telomere regions of the beginning and end of the chromosome, respectively, in the collection of coverage blocks associated with the chromosome. For any given human chromosome, there can be at most two independent, remote telomere blocks associated with genome coverage data, one p-arm and the other q-arm. 'chromosomal instability' or 'CIN' refers to a class of genomic instability in which the chromosome is unstable such that the entire chromosome or parts of the chromosome are replicated or deleted. More specifically, CIN refers to an increase in the rate of increase or loss of whole or part of a chromosome. Such genomic changes may occur particularly in tumor cells, involving an increase or loss of the entire chromosome or structural aberrations, such as severe rearrangements of the chromosome. 'chromosomal steric instability' or 'CSI' refers to chromosomal instability, wherein an increase in rate of increase or loss can be characterized in terms of the spatial distribution of events across the genome. It will be appreciated that CSI information may be obtained at the output of a trained machine learning model, or directly as CSI scores calculated by the machine learning model for a given phenotype, e.g. scalar numbers; or obtained as a CSI state, it may be marked as a positive value 'csi+', a negative value 'CSI-', or a value 'undetermined CSI' that may be indeterminate or undetermined. Positive or negative status of CSI may also be inferred from CSI scores. 'homologous recombination defective status' or 'HRD status' refers to a classification of homologous recombination pathways and is related to any cellular status/event that leads to a defect in the homologous recombination pathway. HRD status can be classified as positive (hrd+), where the homologous recombination pathway is defective; or can be classified as negative (HRD-), wherein the homologous recombination pathway is not defective; or may be divided into other states that are not determined (HRD uncertainty, HRD unknown). 'machine learning model' is a data model or data classifier that is trained using supervised, semi-supervised, or unsupervised learning techniques known in the art of data science, rather than explicit statistical models. The data input may be represented as a one-dimensional signal (vector), a two-dimensional signal (matrix), or more generally a multi-dimensional array signal (e.g., tensor, or RGB color image-3 matrices of 3 x 2d signals represented as their red, green, blue color decomposition planes), and/or combinations thereof. A multi-dimensional array is mathematically defined as a data structure arranged along at least two dimensions, each dimension recording a value greater than 1. In the case of a deep learning classifier, the data input is further processed through a series of data processing layers to implicitly capture hidden data structures, data signatures, and base patterns. Deep learning facilitates the generalization of automated data processing due to the use of multiple data processing layers, making it a diversity of complex pattern detection and data analysis tasks. The machine learning model may be trained within a supervised, semi-supervised, or unsupervised learning framework. Within the supervised learning framework, the model maps output results from the input dataset according to input and output-matching instance-pair learning functions. Examples of machine learning models for supervised learning include: support Vector Machine (SVM), regression analysis, linear regression, logistic regression, naive Bayes Bayes), linear discriminant analysis, decision trees, K-nearest neighbor algorithms, random forests, artificial Neural Networks (ANNs), such as Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), fully connected neural networks, long-short term memory (LSTM) models, and others; and/or combinations thereof. Models trained within the unsupervised learning framework will infer functions that determine the hidden structure of the dataset without requiring prior knowledge about the data. Examples of unsupervised machine learning models known in the art include: clustering, such as k-means clustering, mixed model clustering, hierarchical clustering; an abnormality detection method; principal Component Analysis (PCA), independent Component Analysis (ICA), random adjacent embedding of T-shaped distribution (T-SNE); generating a model; and/or an unsupervised neural network; an automatic encoder; and/or combinations thereof. Semi-supervised learning (SSL) is a machine learning framework in whichIn this, one can train the model using both marked and unmarked data. The data enhancement method may be selected to produce artificial data samples from a sparse set of real data samples and increase the amount and diversity of data used for model training. Unlabeled data can result in a substantial improvement in learning accuracy when used with small amounts of labeled data as compared to other frameworks. This approach is particularly interesting when only part of the available data is marked. 'convolutional neural network' or 'CNN' refers to a machine learning model that uses multiple data processing layers, called convolutional layers, to represent input data in a manner that best suits the task of solving classification or regression. During training, random gradient descent is performed using optimization algorithms known in the art, such as back-propagation algorithms, to optimize the weight parameters for each CNN layer. At run-time, the resulting trained CNN can process the input data very efficiently, e.g., in the case of learning classification tasks, classify it as a correct data output label, and minimize false positives and false negatives. Convolutional neural networks may also be combined with recurrent neural networks to produce deep learning classifiers. Genome analysis system An exemplary genomic analysis system and workflow will now be described in further detail with reference to fig. 1. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art of DNA analysis that the genomic analysis workflow includes: preliminary experimental steps performed in a laboratory (also referred to as a 'wet laboratory') to generate DNA analysis data, raw sequencing reads in the next generation sequencing workflow; and subsequent data processing steps on the DNA analysis data using a bioinformatics system (also referred to as a 'dry laboratory') to further determine information of interest to the end user, such as detailed identification of DNA variants and related annotations. Various embodiments of the DNA analysis workflow are possible depending on the actual application, laboratory setup, and bioinformatics platform. FIG. 1 depicts an example of an NGS system, including a wet laboratory system, in which a DNA sample is first prepared experimentally using a DNA library preparation protocol 100 that can generate, adapt sequencing, and amplify DNA fragments to facilitate processing by an NGS sequencer 110. In the next generation sequencing workflow, the DNA analysis data generated can be generated as a data file of raw sequencing reads in FASTQ format. The workflow may then further include a dry laboratory genomic data analysis system 120 that takes as input raw sequencing reads of a DNA sample pool prepared according to the proposed method and applies a series of data processing steps to characterize certain genomic features of the input sample. The exemplary genomic data analysis system 120 is the Sophia data driven medical platform (Sophia DDM) which has been used by more than 1000 hospitals worldwide in 2020 to automatically identify and characterize genomic variants and report to end users, although other systems may be used. For example, different detailed possible embodiments of the data processing steps that can be applied by the genomic data analysis system 120 to the genomic variant analysis are described in international PCT patent application WO2017/220508, but other embodiments are also possible. As shown in fig. 1, the genomic data analyzer 120 may include a sequence alignment module 121 that compares raw NGS sequencing data to a reference genome, such as a human genome in medical applications, or an animal genome in veterinary applications. In conventional genomic data analysis systems, the resulting alignment data may be further filtered and analyzed by a variant calling module (not shown) to retrieve variant information, such as SNPs and INDEL polymorphisms. The variant call module may be configured to execute different variant call algorithms. The detected variant information may then be output by the genomic data analysis module 120 as a genomic variant report for further processing by the end user, for example with visualization tools, and/or by a further variant annotation processing module (not shown). In a possible embodiment, the genomic data analysis system 120 may include an automated data processing module, such as a coverage data preparation module 122 to prepare spatially arranged coverage data signals, and a Chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) analysis module 123 to analyze spatially arranged coverage data signals and obtain CSI information, which may then be reported to an end user, for example, using a visualization tool, or to another downstream process (not shown). In a possible embodiment, the Chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) analysis module 123 may be adapted to analyze the spatially arranged coverage data signals and derive a CSI score, such as an HRD score, or a CSI state, such as an HRD state, from the CSI information. The HRD score, HRD status, and/or CSI information may then be reported to the end user, for example, using visualization tools, or to another downstream process (not shown). Data processing workflowProgram(s) Genomic data analyzer 120 may process sequencing data by employing and combining different data processing methods to generate a genomic data analysis report. The sequence alignment module 121 may be configured to perform different alignment algorithms. Standard raw data alignment algorithms, such as Bowtie2 or BWA, optimized for rapid processing of large numbers of genomic data sequencing reads may be used, but other embodiments may be used. The comparison may be expressed as one or several BAM or SAM formatted files, as known to those skilled in the bioinformatics arts, but other formats may be used, such as compressed formats or formats optimized for order-preserving encryption, depending on the requirements of the genomic data analyzer 120 for storage optimization and/or privacy execution of genomic data. Fig. 2 shows a possible workflow of an automated data processing module to generate CSI reports from analysis of aligned files (e.g., BAM files) in a bioinformatics channel. In a possible embodiment, the coverage data preparation module 122 may be adapted to generate 200 coverage data signals from the aligned reads as the original number of reads or peer reads aligned with each genomic block and arrange the resulting data 210 into spatially arranged coverage data signals. The spatially arranged coverage data may be represented as a matrix, i.e., a set of matrices, or as coverage multi-dimensional array data (tensors) to facilitate the processing of two-dimensional images, i.e., multi-planar two-dimensional images, or multi-dimensional array (tensors) input signals by CSI analyzer 123. The Chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) analyzer module 123 can then further analyze, classify, and/or categorize 220 the spatially arranged coverage data information to report 230 to an end user whether the data exhibits certain characteristics that are characteristic of possible Chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) of the tumor sample. In a possible implementation, chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) analysis module 123 can generate a CSI score. In another possible embodiment, the Chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) analysis module 123 can generate a CSI state, such as a negative state, a positive state, or an undetermined state. In a possible embodiment, the CSI state may be inferred from the CSI score, but other embodiments are also possible. In preferred embodiments, CSI may characterize Homologous Repair Defects (HRDs) of tumor samples as HRD scores or HRD status, but may also characterize other genomic features related to chromosomal dimensional instability, such as HRDs caused by BRCA1 or BRCA2 defects. This report may then be useful for tumor genomic diagnosis of the cancer subtype and/or prognosis thereof. The report also helps to select medical methods specific to the tumor analyzed, for example using certain cancer treatment methods, exploiting defects in the HRR pathway to reduce or stop proliferation of tumor cells. Genomic data analyzer 120 may be a computer system or a portion of a computer system, including a central processing unit (CPU, 'processor' or 'computer processor' herein), memory, such as RAM, and storage units, such as a hard disk, and a communication interface to communicate with other computer systems over a communication network, such as the internet or a local network. Examples of genomic data analyzer computing systems, environments, and/or configurations include, but are not limited to: personal computer systems, server computer systems, thin clients, thick clients, hand-held or notebook computer devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems, set top boxes, programmable consumer electronics, network PCs, minicomputers systems, mainframe computer systems, graphics Processing Units (GPUs), and the like. In some implementations, the computer system may include one or more computer servers that operate with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing systems and may implement distributed computing, such as cloud computing in a genomic data farm. In some embodiments, the genomic data analyzer 120 may be integrated into a massively parallel system. In some embodiments, the genomic data analyzer 120 may be integrated directly into a next generation sequencing system. Genomic data analyzer 120 the computer system may be adapted in the general case of computer system executable instructions (e.g., program modules) being executed by the computer system. Generally, program modules may include routines, programs, objects, components, logic, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Program modules may be implemented using the native operating system and/or file system functions, stand-alone applications, as is well known to those skilled in the art of computer programming; browser or application plug-ins, applets, etc.; commercial or open source libraries and/or library tools, as may be programmed in Python, biopython, C/c++ or other programming language; custom scripts, such as Perl or Bioperl scripts. The instructions may be executed in a distributed cloud computing environment, where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment, program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices. Thus, it is to be appreciated that the methods described herein are computer-implemented methods. Coverage data preparation-blocking In a possible embodiment, the reference genome coordinates are first divided into a set of P blocks, and the alignment reads in the BAM or SAM file (after alignment of the sequencing reads) are used as input to count the number of DNA fragments mapped to each block using bioinformatics methods known in the art to generate 200 coverage data signals along the P blocks. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art of bioinformatics that in some embodiments, some blocks may be omitted, filtered, or combined with other blocks to improve the quality of the input data. In a possible simple embodiment, a uniform size may be used for the blocks along the reference genome, but a heterogeneous size may also be chosen. The size of the tiles may be selected such that they preserve sufficient spatial detail for analysis of the coverage data signal for each chromosome, while facilitating coverage data signal analysis using the machine learning analysis methods described herein. Preferably, the size of the block may be 300bp to 20Mpb, but other implementations are also possible. In the case of reference to the human genome, chromosomes are ordered sequentially from the largest chromosome (chr 1) to the smallest chromosome (chr 22), possibly excluding sex chromosomes. Human chromosomes are numbered in decreasing length from chr1 of 249Mbp to chr22 of 51 Mbp. For example, by dividing the reference genome by 3Mbp blocks, a one-dimensional array (vector) can be obtained in which 84 blocks are found for the longest chromosome 1 and 4 blocks are found for the shortest chromosome 22. Table 1 shows the theoretical respective start and end positions of the centromere region, the total length of the chromosome and its type, and the respective lengths (Mbp) of the p-arm (short arm) and q-arm (long arm) of each chromosome in the human genome, with reference to the GRCh37 reference genome in the coordinate system of the reference genome for read alignment (hs 37d5 version). Note that under current high throughput sequencing techniques, not all human genomic blocks may contain aligned reads in BAM files, because it is difficult to map short NGS reads accurately to certain repetitive sequences or problematic regions of the human genome, such as the p-arm of the proximal centromere chromosome 13, 14, 15, 21, 22, or Y. TABLE 1 start and end positions of the centromere region position, chromosome length (bp) and chromosome arm length (Mbp) of human chromosomes represented in GRCh37 reference genome coordinate system (hs 37d5 version) It will be apparent to those skilled in the bioinformatics that in possible embodiments, the block size and location of sequencing data along the whole genome may also be adjusted according to the actual coverage of the BAM file. In general, we can consider that each block in a set of P blocks can be defined by 2 values corresponding to the start and end positions of the block { block_start, block_end }1< = block_index < = P in the reference frame. Thus, the size of the block may be variable, i.e. block_size = block_end-block_start. In a possible implementation, the size of the block may be 0.5Mbp to 1.5Mbp, or from 1.5Mbp to 2.5Mbp, or from 2.5Mbp to 3.5Mbp, or from 3.5Mbp to 4.5Mbp, or from 4.5Mbp to 5.5Mbp, or from 5.5Mbp to 6.5Mbp, or from 6.5Mbp to 7.5Mbp, or from 7.5Mbp to 8.5Mbp, or from 8.5Mbp to 9.5Mbp. In another possible embodiment, the size of the tiles may be selected so as to obtain a fixed number of tiles for each chromosome or each chromosome arm. Other embodiments are also possible. The coverage signal for each chromosome or each chromosome arm can then be obtained by counting the number of alignment reads in each block of the fixed set of blocks. In a possible embodiment, the resulting high resolution coverage data signal array for each chromosome or each chromosome arm may be input as high dimensional data for downstream CSI analysis. In a possible alternative implementation, a first set of high resolution coverage blocks may be generated using a first size of 100 kbps. The resulting high resolution coverage data signal may be further collapsed into a second set of larger blocks of 1 to 20Mbp, for example by combining about 30 large initial blocks of 100 kbps to produce blocks of larger size (2.5 Mbp to 3.5 Mbp), thereby reducing the dimensionality of the data for downstream CSI analysis. Various methods known to those skilled in the art of bioinformatics may be employed for this purpose, such as smoothing, using median or average values to reduce dimensionality, pooling, sampling, and other methods. In a preferred embodiment, collapse uniquely assigns each patch to a particular chromosome arm without blending coverage data from different chromosome arms into the patch. The coverage data is then clearly separated from one chromosome arm to the next, which may be helpful in analyzing chromosome spatial instability events at the chromosome arm level. In a possible embodiment, collapsing may include adjusting the size of the collapsed region according to the length of each chromosome arm to reduce boundary effects at the chromosome arm boundaries. For example, where the length of the chromosome arm cannot be segmented by the initial block size considered, the resulting collapsed block will typically be shorter than the others, causing boundary effects (e.g., the centromere block or telomere block at either end of the chromosome arm may not include the entire 3Mbp region and may result in distorted coverage of these regions, which may be critical for analysis of CSI events). The strategy to reduce this effect is to adjust the blockiness size relative to the chromosome arm length so that the chromosome arm length under consideration can be partitioned by blockiness size with negligible remainder. This ensures that all collapsed blocks on the chromosome arm under consideration have the same physical dimensions. In a possible further embodiment, the collapse may comprise adjusting the starting or ending position of the collapsed blocks individually along the chromosome arm, thereby adjusting the actual dimensions such that the sum of the variable dimensions of the collapsed blocks is still equal to the length of the chromosome arm, while being more or less evenly distributed along the chromosome arm. Fig. 3 schematically shows a chromosome 300 comprising a central position 320 corresponding to a centromere, a start position 310 corresponding to a p-arm telomere and an end position 330 corresponding to a q-arm telomere. The chromosome includes a first telomere region 315 starting at a start position 310, a centromere region 325 surrounding the centromere, and a second telomere region 335 ending at an end position 330. It will be apparent to those skilled in the bioinformatics arts that a portion 351 of the centromere region 325 has no associated reference sequence in the existing reference genome covering this region 325 and therefore cannot be mapped. In a possible implementation, high resolution blocks corresponding to limited coverage areas or low quality areas may also be removed based on genomic knowledge of the respective areas (e.g., area 370 in fig. 3). In a preferred embodiment, a different set of first high resolution coverage patches 350, 352 may be built up separately for each chromosome arm from the BAM file. Each set of high resolution tiles may then be further collapsed into a second set of larger range tiles 360, 362 for each arm. The blocks may also span shorter or larger genomic regions (e.g., 2.5Mbp block 371, then 3.5Mbp block 372, averaged to 3Mbp blocks) based on genomic knowledge of the respective region, and/or optimize blocks at the respective ends of the two chromosome arms (telomere blocks 372, 375, which are the nearest blocks near telomeres 310, 330, or centromere blocks 373, 374, which are the nearest blocks near centromeres 320). For example, the initial 100kbp blocks from each chromosome arm may be smoothed independently to obtain 3Mbp blocks (i.e., an aggregation of 30 100kbp blocks). Since the total number of blocks per chromosome arm is not likely to be divided by 30, the final smoothed block of the chromosome arm typically contains less than 30 original blocks. This may bring too much importance to these areas if they are left, whereas too much information is lost if they are deleted. To reduce boundary effects, larger variable-size blocks may be collapsed independently for each chromosome arm. In a possible implementation, the block size that results in the smallest incomplete block margin and closest to the target size may be selected. In a possible implementation, the last block, if incomplete, may be rejected (as it may now be ignored), but other implementations are possible. Table 2, column 3, shows an exemplary distribution of proposed collapsed block sizes for each chromosome arm, with an initial set of blocks of 100kbp collapsed along the 2 x 22 chromosome arms into larger blocks of the target 3Mbp size. Column 4 shows the size of the resulting rejected border block, the last collapsed block of the arm border will be formed when the fixed size of all arms is 3Mpb, compared to the default number of remaining high resolution blocks in column 2. Table 2. Exemplary block collapse distribution, from a 100kbp block to a target collapsed block size of 3 MBp. Coverage data preparation-normalization It will be apparent to those skilled in the art of bioinformatics that in some embodiments, the raw coverage data signal may be further normalized, filtered, or smoothed by methods known in the art. In a possible embodiment, normalization may include normalization of each sample by dividing the coverage data signal by the average coverage signal of the entire sample to free from deviations associated with sample sequencing experiments that may result in differences in coverage of each sample. Normalization may also include applying GC-offset correction by normalization of GC content. Other implementations are possible, such as block-by-block normalization, linear and nonlinear least squares regression, GC LOESS (GC normalization), LOWESS, PERUN (per sample normalization), RM, GCRM, cQn, and/or combinations thereof. In a possible further embodiment, the normalized data may be further partitioned into sub-regions within the block to determine homogeneous regions in the coverage data signal, possibly corresponding to different copy numbers (typically 2 per chromosome). Coverage segmentation methods can infer the copy number of discrete fragments relative to other genomic regions from a coverage curve for a given sample. For this purpose, the coverage curve is broken down into segments (i.e. parts of the genome) where the coverage is considered constant. Each segment defined in the previous step may then be associated with a discrete level defined in terms of coverage signal amplitude. At this stage, copy Number Variation (CNV) events can already be detected, but the absolute copy number associated with each coverage level remains unknown. Where the sample tumor content and ploidy are known or can be inferred from the data, the discrete levels determined by segmentation can be mapped to integers reflecting the number of copies present in the tumor (e.g., cn=1, cn=2,  ). It will be apparent to those skilled in the bioinformatics arts that such segmentation methods can reduce noise and facilitate identification of the copy number profile of the sample, whether or not there is an absolute copy number reference. However, in the presence of noise, segmentation may produce erroneous results because it suppresses coverage fluctuations caused by copy number variations, especially at low depth of coverage sequencing. Thus, in a preferred embodiment, the genomic analysis methods described herein can be run without a segmentation step. In another embodiment, the segmentation step may be applied to pre-process the data prior to applying the machine learning methods disclosed herein. After possible normalization and/or segmentation steps, the coverage data typically consists of a set of one-dimensional vectors, where each vector corresponds to a chromosome. In a possible embodiment, the coverage data may also consist of a set of one-dimensional vectors, each vector corresponding to a chromosome arm. In a possible embodiment, the size of the vector may be variable, reflecting that different chromosomes have different sizes. In another possible embodiment, the size of the tiles is variable such that each chromosome vector (or each chromosome arm vector) has the same size. Fig. 4 depicts an exemplary coverage data 1D signal of a whole genome NGS sequencing experiment performed after normalization to sample and GC content with a 1X coverage on the first 22 chromosomes (excluding sex chromosomes) of the human genome, a 100kbp block. Fig. 5 shows the arrangement of the same coverage data signals on each chromosome, with a collapsed block of 3Mbp. Spatial arrangement of coverage data In a preferred embodiment, the coverage data may thus be further spatially arranged 210 to form a multi-dimensional data array, wherein the coverage data is organized to align each chromosome or chromosome arm along any of their telomeres or blocks of centromeres in the array structure. The multi-dimensional array structure may be particularly suitable for benefiting from the highly efficient genomic analysis machine learning training model recently developed for non-genomic applications (such as image classifiers), rather than relying on simple ergonomic features as in the HRD detection methods of the prior art. In other words, and consistent with the definition of telomeres or centromere regions provided, the coverage data signal vectors may be further spatially arranged 210 to form a coverage data signal image, wherein the coverage data is organized to align each chromosome or segment of chromosome arms along at least one centromere region adjacent to a centromere region or at least one telomere region adjacent to a telomere region in a two-dimensional array structure. In a possible embodiment, the coverage data signal vectors may be further spatially arranged 210 to form a one-dimensional coverage data array, wherein the coverage data is organized as tail-to-head connections along each chromosome or region of a chromosome arm of the genome. In another preferred embodiment, the coverage data signal vectors may be further spatially arranged 210 to form a multi-dimensional coverage data signal array, wherein the coverage data is organized into a block of each chromosome or chromosome arm aligned along at least two blocks of the array structure adjacent to the centromere region, one block to the left of the centromere and the other block to the right of the centromere, and the multi-dimensional data array is a two-dimensional array, in particular a two-dimensional image. In another preferred embodiment, the coverage data may be further spatially arranged 210 to form a multi-dimensional data array, wherein the coverage data is organized to align each chromosome or region of the chromosome arm along at least two regions of the array structure adjacent to the telomere region, wherein one region is located at a chromosome start point within a coverage area block set associated with the chromosome and the other region is located at a chromosome end point within the coverage area block set associated with the chromosome, and the multi-dimensional data array is a two-dimensional array, particularly a two-dimensional image. In another preferred embodiment, the coverage data may be further spatially arranged 210 to form a multi-dimensional data array, wherein the coverage data is organized to align each chromosome or region of the chromosome arm along at least one or at least two regions adjacent to the centromere region or at least one or at least two regions adjacent to the telomere region in the array structure, wherein the multi-dimensional data array is a two-dimensional array, in particular a two-dimensional image. In this case, the region adjacent to the centromere or telomere region means that it is the region closest to these regions. In a further preferred embodiment, the region of each chromosome arm is calculated independently. In one embodiment, the method may include, but is not limited to, the step wherein the coverage data for each chromosome arm may be further normalized by taking the bit normalized coverage over a window of 2.5Mbp to 3.5 Mbp. The exact block resolution can be independently chosen between these two values for each chromosome arm, resulting in the smallest possible incomplete block at the end of the chromosome arm. The last incomplete block is discarded in the input of the machine learning model, such as CNN. Thus, the last block of each p-arm contains a coverage signal that is closest in its position to its corresponding chromosomal centromere. Likewise, the first patch of each q-arm contains a coverage signal that is closest to the location of its corresponding chromosomal centromere. Meanwhile, the first block of each p-arm contains the region of the chromosome telomere whose coverage signal is closest to its corresponding p-arm in terms of its location. Likewise, the last block of each q-arm contains a coverage signal that is closest to the location of its corresponding q-arm chromosome telomere region. Thus, as can be appreciated and described in fig. 3, the centromere region may not be included in these regions. Thus, the last block of the p-arm and the first block of the q-arm instead mark the centromere region of one chromosome. The effect of organizing coverage data to align the tiles described herein allows for the detection of spatial relationships between detected events, such as genomic instability within a chromosome arm. Machine learning models, such as CNN, may use spatially distributed information of detected events, thus potentially improving their output predictions when accurate state detection benefits from this type of spatial arrangement. FIG. 6 shows a graphical representation of chromosomes arranged according to centromere position. It can be seen from Table 1 and FIG. 6 that the length of the longest chromosome chr1 is 249Mbp, the length of the longest p-arm is 124.7Mbp for chr1, and the longest q-arm is actually longer in chr2, 147.9Mbp. In a possible embodiment, in a given constant tile_size, the coverage data may be adapted to a two-dimensional array of (upper limit (chr_p-arm_max_len)/tile_size+upper limit (chr_q-arm_max_len)/tile_size) N, where N is the number representing the number of chromosomes, chr_p-arm_max_len is the longest p-arm length, chr_q-arm_max_len is the longest q-arm length of the N chromosome sets to be jointly analyzed. As an illustrative example, whole genome sequencing coverage data on arms of 22 non-sex chromosomes are arranged in their centromere blocks, with a constant size block of block_size=3mbp, an array of size 92 x 22 (or 22 x 92) may be spatially arranged 210 by the genome data analyzer 120 as the data input to the CSI analyzer 123. The coverage data of the longest p-arm 124.7Mbp (chr 1) may indeed fit in 42 3Mbp blocks, while the longest q-arm 147.9Mbp (chr 2) may fit in 50 3Mbp blocks. In a possible embodiment, the multidimensional array may be arranged to represent a block of 2*N chromosome arms with the longest chromosome arm in the N chromosome groups to be analyzed. For example, coverage data may be spatially arranged in an array of size 44 x 50 for analysis of 22 chromosomes with a constant block size of 3Mbp. The coverage data for each chromosome arm may be arranged in rows (or columns) in the array so that the centromere blocks of the chromosome arms remain consistent in the array. In a possible implementation, the adaptive block illustrated in fig. 3 may be applied to remove irrelevant high resolution blocks and adjust variable block sizes and positions along the chromosome genome. For example, an array of size 84 x 22 (or 22 x 84) may be spatially arranged 210 by genomic data analyzer 120 as a data input to CSI analyzer 123. Other embodiments are also possible. Since the number of tiles varies with the length of the chromosome and/or chromosome arm, some elements of the array need to be padded by filling in dummy data that is not present in the coverage data. Various options are possible for those skilled in the art of data science to populate empty entries (or elements) of the multi-dimensional array. In a possible implementation, the null element may be filled with a constant value. In another possible implementation, the null element may be filled from a mask array of predefined constant values. In another possible embodiment, the null elements may be populated according to coverage data of the portions of the rows or columns that are populated with real data. In a possible embodiment, the empty elements may be filled in by repeating the coverage values from the last available block of columns (or rows) of blocks along the chromosome or chromosome arm row (or column) to the left or right (above or below, respectively). In another possible implementation, a single size of the tiles may be selected to promote dense packing of the array. Smaller block sizes (corresponding to better resolution) may be selected in regions with special genomic significance to increase the total number of blocks for certain chromosome arms. Fig. 7 shows an example of spatial rearrangement of normalized coverage data into a two-dimensional array image suitable for CSI analysis with a machine learning model, from a) HRD negative tumor DNA samples and b) HRD positive tumor DNA samples, respectively. The chromosomes are arranged in rows and the coverage area blocks are arranged in columns such that the centromere blocks are vertically arranged in a single column prior to analysis of the chromosome's spatial instability in accordance with certain embodiments of the proposed coverage data preparation method. The brighter the pixel, the normalized coverage count value C of the drawn tile Block block The higher, and conversely, the darker the pixel, the lower the value. Chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) analyzer Genomic data analysis system 250 may further apply chromosome spatial instability analyzer 123 to a spatially arranged multi-dimensional array of coverage data to automatically analyze and report one or more genomic characteristics that characterize certain patterns of spatial instability of two or more chromosomes or chromosome arms in each DNA sample. In the case of tumor sample analysis, CSI analyzer module 123 may report the burden of chromosomal aberration, such as a large number of deletions or duplications of alleles along a particular genomic region of each chromosome arm. In a possible embodiment, CSI analyzer module 123 is a computer-implemented algorithm that is trained to distinguish between a DNA sample with genomic instability (labeled HRD positive status) and another DNA sample without genomic instability (labeled HRD negative status). In a possible implementation, in the case of tumor samples, CSI analyzer module 123 may identify features (signature) that may identify samples with similar features, possibly in good response to a given therapy. CSI analyzer module 123 can accordingly identify, classify, and report a combination of metrics, scalar scores, or characteristic metrics to describe one or more genomic characteristics of the tumor sample. In a preferred embodiment, CSI analyzer module 123 may identify, classify and report the status of the tumor sample accordingly, such as HRD-negative or HRD-positive, or may be indeterminate (uncertain). In a possible implementation, CSI analysis module 123 may report scalar scores as an indicator of HRD likelihood for tumor samples. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that this bioinformatics approach subsequently greatly facilitates a detailed understanding of cancer cell genomic alterations in tumor samples and adapts personalized medical treatments to the patient's inferred cancer cell biology specifics. In one embodiment, the genome characterization report may be displayed to the end user on a graphical user interface. In another possible embodiment, the genome property report may be made into a text file for further automated processing. Other embodiments are also possible. In a preferred embodiment, CSI analyzer module 123 may be adapted to apply a machine learning model to a spatially arranged multi-dimensional array of coverage data. In a possible embodiment, CSI analyzer module 123 may include a trained neural network or a combination of trained neural networks as a data processing module to analyze 220 a spatially arranged multi-dimensional array of coverage data as input to the trained neural network and to generate CSI results as output from the trained neural network. An exemplary CSI analyzer 123 and its data processing workflow will now be described in further detail with reference to fig. 8. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art of machine learning that different methods and architectures known in the art can be used to process the prepared coverage data multi-dimensional array input and derive the CSI state or CSI score of the tumor sample. Exemplary CNN machine learning model To classify a multi-dimensional array (e.g., a two-dimensional image) in which chromosome arms have been aligned along their respective centromere locations to highlight visual patterns that characterize the CSI states of the chromosome set, convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) can be constructed and trained by employing methods and techniques known in the art of image pattern recognition, such as TensorFlow, caffe, caffe, pytorch, theano, or others. Fig. 8 schematically shows an example of a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) that can process a spatially arranged coverage data matrix image of patient tumor DNA samples to classify them as HRD positive (hrd+) or HRD negative (HRD-). In the example of fig. 8, the trained CNN takes as input a spatially aligned coverage data matrix image 800, which is arranged in 22 rows of non-sex chromosomes, from chr1 at the top to chr22 at the bottom, and in columns of tiles (about 3Mbp in size, arranged along the centromere region of the chromosome, substantially filled with 0 coverage numbers in the exemplary illustration of fig. 8, although other implementations are possible). The input image 800 is input to a first convolutional neural network 810 having several processing layers to quantify a set of intermediate features, which are themselves input to a second neural network classifier 820, responsible for extracting two scores (one HRD-, one hrd+) as its two outputs. The CSI analyzer may then derive HRD states (HRD-, hrd+, or uncertainty) by comparing and thresholding the HRD-and hrd+ output values. More generally, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that CSI analyzer 123 may be adapted to employ various CNN architectures. The convolutional network may include a first series of serially connected convolutional data processing layers 810, which may further feed a second series of fully connected layers 720 to output various prediction results. For example, the CNN structure may comprise one or more convolution layers arranged for processing one-, two-or multi-dimensional data; optionally, one or more maximum, median or average aggregation layers arranged for processing one-, two-or multi-dimensional data; one or more multiple filter layers to regularize during training; optionally, one or more batch regularization layers; a flattened layer followed by one or more fully connected layers; or a combination thereof. Different activation methods known in the art may be used, such as ReLU, SELU, or more generally any activation function that prevents the gradient from disappearing. The different output activations may also use methods known in the art, e.g., sigmoid function methods, to generate probabilities associated with the single-label binary classification (e.g., probability of positive state, probability of negative state = 1-probability of positive state); either a softmax method is used to generate probabilities (e.g., mutually exclusive probabilities of positive, negative, or uncertain states) associated with the single-label multi-class classification output, or a regression method, such as a linear method or a ReLU classification method, is used to generate scalar values that are not intended to be interpreted as probabilities, such as HRD scores. In a preferred embodiment, CSI analyzer 123 generates final output decisions, such as hrd+ or HRD-state analysis for each sample, by thresholding the output of the CNN. The threshold may be adjusted according to the application in order to optimize the sensitivity and/or specificity of the CSI analysis according to the needs of the end user, e.g. for diagnosis, prognosis or guiding the selection of the most effective cancer treatment. In a possible implementation, CSI analyzer 123 may further report 230 the output value of CNN according to the needs of the end user. Fig. 9 shows an example of one possible detailed CNN architecture that may be employed by CSI analyzer 123 for analyzing 220 spatially arranged coverage data. For each convolution layer inside the network, the number of filters and the size of the filters are denoted as [ NxHxW ], where N is the number of filters, H is the height of the filters, and W is the width of the filters. Each convolution layer is normalized by an activation function (regularized linear unit, reLU) and then Batch Normalized (BN). The intermediate convolutional layers may be interleaved with the max pooling layers and then interleaved by the average pooling layer and the flattening layer in accordance with the usual CNN structure. In this example, the output layer of the CNN is flattened, through the bulk normalization layer, dropout layer, and uses a sigmoid activation function as input to the single-node dense layer (i.e., the fully connected layer). Chromosome Spatial Instability (CSI) analyzer training For supervised and semi-supervised CSI analyzer training, a set of labeled input-output pairs may be used as a training set. For example, to train the CSI analyzer to classify HRD states, a subset of data samples of the common domain HRD markers may be used, enabling the network to adjust its parameters (e.g., weights) along its different layers through an optimization process (e.g., back propagation) that is particularly applied during the training phase, minimizing its output errors. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art of machine learning that different loss functions may be used to measure errors, for example, binary cross entropy measurements may be used for models with single-label binary classification outputs, cross entropy measurements of classification may be used for models with single-label multi-class classification outputs, or regression methods based on root mean square error, absolute error, or other error measurements. The optimization may be performed using an existing random descent gradient-based optimizer such as ADAM or RMPSprop. Regularization may employ a disclaimer method, an early stop method, and/or L-1 or L-2 parameter regularization. Other embodiments are also possible. As more clinical conditions associated with chromosomal instability are classified by current and future oncology studies, additional datasets may be used to train machine learning models aimed at detecting genomic scars caused by HRD or other phenomena, such as responses to specific treatments. In a possible implementation, the binary states of hrd+ and HRD-, and optionally the 'uncertain' state, may be used as a multi-class base real label. In another possible implementation, HRD scores from prior art methods (e.g., HRDetect) may be used as scalar output labels. According to any possible implementation of the methods disclosed herein, the input coverage signal data array may also be spatially arranged as multi-dimensional data, as long as the choice of multi-dimensional array format implementation remains unchanged at training time and at run time. In possible embodiments, the additional data set used to train the machine learning model may comprise a coverage data signal array from patient DNA samples, wherein the patients are known for homologous recombination defect states, and/or wherein the patients receive cancer treatment regimens and the treatment outcome is known (response versus no response). In a possible embodiment, the additional data set used to train the machine learning model may include an array of coverage data signals from DNA samples generated from primary or immortalized cell line experiments or tumor-derived organoid experiments, particularly experiments to determine whether organoids predicted to have HRD are eliminated by cancer treatment regimens or reduced growth thereof. In a possible implementation, a semi-supervised learning framework may be employed to train the machine learning model. In fact, acquiring tagged data can be challenging and costly, especially in the context of HRD state prediction, making semi-supervised learning a promising framework for this application. Since the degree of overfitting of a model is determined by its complexity and the amount of training that is accepted, providing more training examples to the model can help reduce overfitting. Data augmentation includes creating new artificial training samples from existing data. In a possible embodiment, the artificial sample may be generated by extracting chromosomes from an existing real sample sharing the same HRD state and having similar tumor content (or biomimetic pre-processing to mimic similar tumor content) and ploidy. In a possible embodiment, an artificial sample may be generated by sampling chromosomes from available real samples sharing the same HRD status and the same normalized purity and ploidy ratio, where purity is the percentage of tumor cells in the sample and ploidy is the average chromosome copy number of the entire genome, thereby characterizing how many complete sets of chromosomes the tumor cells average. In one embodiment, the machine learning model is trained on coverage data signal array data from the labeled real samples. In another embodiment, the machine learning model is trained on coverage data signal array data from labeled real samples and labeled data enhancement samples generated by sampling chromosomes from available real samples having the same HRD state and ensuring that the purity/ploidy ratio of the sampled chromosomes is the same. Thus, any machine learning model can learn to quantify the difference between a DNA sample positive for HRD status and another DNA sample negative for HRD status as CSI score, and then classify the tested DNA sample according to CSI score results. In a possible implementation, the machine learning model is trained in a supervised or semi-supervised mode, using at least one set of real samples labeled with HRD states according to the HRDetect method. Preferably, the learning model is trained in the supervised mode using at least one set of real samples labeled with HRD states according to the HRDetect method. In a possible embodiment, the machine learning model is trained in a supervised or semi-supervised mode, using artificial samples generated by sampling a set of chromosomes with true samples of the same HRD state and taking into account differences in purity ploidy ratios. In a possible embodiment, the machine learning model is trained in the supervision mode using artificial samples generated by sampling a set of chromosomes sharing real samples of the same HRD state, taking into account differences in purity ploidy ratios. In one embodiment, a trained machine learning model calculates CSI scores for subject DNA samples and uses the CSI scores to classify the probability that the subject DNA samples belong to a sample group having a certain CSI state. In one embodiment, a trained machine learning model calculates CSI scores for subject DNA samples and uses the CSI scores to determine HRD states of a group of samples to which the subject DNA samples belong. In one embodiment, a computer-based method of determining a CSI state of a DNA sample is provided, wherein the CSI state is an HRD state. In one embodiment, a computer-based method of determining CSI status of a DNA sample is provided, wherein the DNA sample is DNA from a cancer sample. In one embodiment, a computer-based method of determining CSI status of a DNA sample is provided, wherein the low-pass whole genome sequencing coverage is at least 0.1X and up to 30X, such as 1X to 10X, such as 0.1X to 5X, or such as 0.1X to 1X. In one embodiment, provided is a computer-based method of determining CSI status of a DNA sample, wherein low throughput genomic sequencing is at least 0.1X and at most 30X, such as 1X to 10X, such as 0.1X to 5X, or such as 0.1X to 1X, obtained is a set of sequencing reads of a subject DNA sample comprising reads from at least 2 and at most 22 chromosomes. In one embodiment, a computer-based method of determining CSI status of a DNA sample is provided, wherein an alignment of sequencing reads of the DNA sample with a human reference genome is performed. In one embodiment, a computer-based method of determining CSI status of DNA samples is provided, wherein normalization by GC content to apply GC-offset correction is performed. In one embodiment, a computer-based method of determining a CSI state of a DNA sample is provided, the CSI state being an HRD state. In one embodiment, a computer-based method of determining CSI status of DNA samples is provided, wherein a machine learning model is pre-trained using training data sets of samples of known genomic instability status, such as hrd+/HRD-status, so that the machine learning model is trained to distinguish samples with coverage spectrogram characteristics of samples of a certain CSI status, such as HRD status. Diagnostic/prognostic methods In one embodiment, an in vitro method of characterizing a DNA sample obtained from a patient is provided, the method comprising. -isolating DNA fragments from a patient sample; -constructing a sequencing library comprising said fragments overlapping a set of chromosomes; -sequencing the library to a sequencing coverage of at most 30X; -comparing the obtained sequencing reads with a human reference genome; and generating CSI scores for the subject samples using the methods of the invention. In one embodiment, an in vitro method of characterizing a DNA sample obtained from a patient is provided, the method comprising. -isolating DNA fragments from a patient sample; -constructing a sequencing library comprising said fragments overlapping a set of chromosomes; -sequencing the library to a sequencing coverage of at most 30X; -comparing the obtained sequencing reads with a human reference genome; and determining the HRD status of the patient sample from the CSI score obtained with the method of the invention. A method of selecting a cancer patient for treatment with a PARP inhibitor comprising the step of detecting HRD positivity in a tumor patient sample using any of the methods described herein. In one embodiment, the patient has cancer, which can be classified as HRD positive (hrd+) or HRD negative (HRD-) by using any of the methods described herein. In one embodiment, an in vitro method of characterizing a DNA sample obtained from a patient is provided, wherein the patient sample is a tumor sample and the chromosomal dimensional instability index of the patient sample is a predictor of tumor response to a cancer treatment regimen comprising a platinum-based chemotherapeutic agent, a DNA damaging agent, an anthracycline, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, or a PARP inhibitor. In one embodiment, an in vitro method of characterizing a DNA sample obtained from a patient is provided, comprising the step of identifying whether a tumor patient sample is deficient in Homologous Recombination (HR) based on a chromosomal steric instability indicator, wherein the likelihood of being deficient in Homologous Recombination (HR) is high, indicating that PARP inhibitors are useful in methods of treating cancer. PARP inhibitors may be used alone or in combination with other therapeutic methods. In one embodiment, a method of selecting a cancer patient for treatment with a platinum-based chemotherapeutic agent, a DNA damaging agent, an anthracycline, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, or a PARP inhibitor is provided, comprising the step of detecting that a patient DNA cancer sample is HRD positive according to the computer-based method of determining CSI status of a DNA cancer sample described herein. In one embodiment, the method for selecting a cancer subject for treatment is an in vitro method. In one embodiment, provided is a computer-based method of determining CSI status of a DNA cancer sample described herein, wherein the method further comprises: when the DNA cancer sample is determined to be deficient in homologous recombination, the cancer is treated by administering a Poly ADP Ribose Polymerase (PARP) inhibitor to the test subject. According to one aspect, the sample is a sample of a patient in the form of tissue, fresh Frozen Tissue (FFT), blood or any body fluid, or cytological specimen/preparation (FFPE, smear) or the like. According to one aspect, the sample is a tumor sample of a patient, including an FFPE sample. In another particular embodiment, the patient has cancer, particularly high grade serous ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, and the like. According to one embodiment, a method of diagnosing a cancer type as hdr+ or HDR-according to the methods described herein is provided, wherein a sample is obtained from a subject having or suspected of having cancer. Wet laboratory workflowProgram(s)Integration of (a) -Data generation-WGS workflow for CSI analyzer In a possible embodiment, a method of determining CSI status of a DNA sample of a subject is provided, the method comprising: a) Providing a sample material comprising nucleic acids; b) Preparing a first nucleic acid sequencing library for whole genome sequencing; c) Sequencing the first nucleic acid sequencing library obtained in step b); d) Analyzing the nucleic acid sequence obtained in step c), wherein, the sequence of the nucleic acid sequence (obtained in step c) is analyzed according to the computer-based method of determining CSI status of a subject DNA sample described herein. -Data generation-WGS workflow and variant calling program target enrichment workflow of CSI analyzer In a possible embodiment, a method of determining CSI status of a DNA sample of a subject is provided, the method comprising: a) Providing a sample material comprising nucleic acids; b) Preparing a first nucleic acid sequencing library for whole genome sequencing; c) Sequencing the nucleic acid sequencing library obtained in step b); d) Analyzing the nucleic acid sequence obtained in step c), wherein, the sequence of the nucleic acid sequence (obtained in step c) is analyzed according to the computer-based method of determining CSI status of a subject DNA sample described herein. Wherein the method further comprises: e) Preparing a second nucleic acid sequencing library from the same sample material; f) Performing targeted enrichment on the second nucleic acid sequencing library; g) Sequencing the targeted enrichment library obtained in step f); h) Analyzing the nucleic acid sequence obtained in step g), wherein, the sequences from the enriched nucleic acid library (obtained in step f) are analyzed according to any known variant calling method. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art of genomic analysis that the first and second libraries may be prepared independently from the same sample at the same time, or at different times, in any order. In a possible embodiment, the first and second libraries may be obtained by dividing one library into two subsets, one subset (first library-WGS library for CSI analysis) going through steps c) and d) and the other subset (second library-targeted enrichment library for variant call analysis) going through subsets e) to h). In another embodiment, a method of determining CSI status of a DNA sample of a subject is provided, the method comprising: a) Providing a sample material comprising nucleic acids; b) Preparing a first nucleic acid sequencing library; c) Performing targeted enrichment on the nucleic acid sequencing library to obtain a second enriched nucleic acid sequencing library; d) Sequencing the nucleic acid sequencing library obtained in step b) and step c); e) Analyzing the nucleic acid sequence obtained in step d), wherein, after removal of sequences aligned with the region enriched in c), sequences from the non-targeted genomic region of the first non-enriched nucleic acid sequence library (obtained in step b) are analyzed according to the computer-based method for determining CSI status of a subject DNA sample described herein And the sequences from the second enriched nucleic acid library (obtained in step c) are analyzed according to any known variant calling method. It will be apparent to those skilled in the genomics arts that the workflow described above can use different genomic analysis steps. The step of providing sample material comprising nucleic acids may be performed according to any known DNA extraction method. If multiple samples are sequenced together in one experiment, genomic barcoding methods can be employed to identify sample material in downstream analysis. The step of preparing a nucleic acid sequencing library may be performed according to any known method for preparing a sequencing library. Alternatively, step b) of preparing a nucleic acid sequencing library may comprise a further nucleic acid sequence amplification step b.0. Amplification of the nucleic acid may be performed according to any known method, such as Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). The step of performing targeted enrichment may be performed according to any known method of targeted enrichment DNA-sequencing or RNA-sequencing, such as targeted hybridization capture (i.e., targeted sequencing based on hybridization capture) or amplicon-based methods (amplicon sequencing). According to one embodiment, the targeted enrichment is targeted enrichment based on capture. According to this embodiment, the step of performing targeted enrichment comprises hybridizing at least one probe or set of probes to targeted nucleic acids from genomic regions known to carry variants of interest (such as, but not limited to, BRCA1 and BRCA2 regions) ('targeted regions' or 'enriched regions'), washing away non-targeted nucleic acids and enriching for nucleic acids. It is understood that the term 'probe' or interchangeably 'decoy' or '(probe) nucleic acid molecule' or 'capture probe' or '(DNA/RNA) oligonucleotide (capture) probe' refers to a nucleic acid molecule that can hybridize to a target nucleic acid molecule. Any known probe design may be used. The term 'target nucleic acid' refers to a region of nucleic acid in a gene or transcript that can be captured by the probe used. Preferably, the target nucleic acid is a gene associated with the HRR pathway, such as selected from, but not limited to BRCA1 and BRCA2. It will be appreciated that the nucleic acid sequencing library obtained in step b) may be divided into at least two parts, wherein one part will not be targeted enriched and thus remains a non-enriched nucleic acid library; while the other part will be targeted and form an enriched nucleic acid library. It will be appreciated that the non-enriched nucleic acid library and the enriched nucleic acid library may be loaded together or separately into a sequencer. Thus, depending on the workflow chosen, the nucleic acid sequences may be obtained individually or together. When a library of non-enriched nucleic acids and an enriched nucleic acid library are loaded together into a sequencer, these libraries are loaded at a predetermined concentration. These relative concentrations are a function of the desired coverage of the targeted (enriched) and non-targeted regions, such that the nucleic acid coverage of the non-enriched library is 0.1X to 10X,0.5X to 10X, at least 0.2X, or preferably at least 0.1X and at most 30X; and the nucleic acid coverage of the enriched library is at least 30X, or 30X to 100X, or 100X to 500X, or 500X to 1000X, or 1000X to 5000X, preferably at least 4000X. The sequencing step of the nucleic acid library may be performed according to any known method and using a known sequencer. In a possible embodiment, the sequence analysis from the non-enriched nucleic acid library and the sequence analysis from the enriched nucleic acid sample are performed separately. When two libraries are sequenced together, analyzing sequences from a non-enriched nucleic acid library according to the computer-based methods described herein to obtain CSI status may include the step of further filtering out regions of coverage in the targeted enriched library. These regions may be masked or filtered by the CSI analyzer according to any known masking strategy, such as: m 1) by simply comparing the sequencing reads to the reference genome in genomic regions that are not covered by the targeted enrichment library; or (b) m 2) by selecting only the aligned genomic regions not covered by the targeted enrichment library in the alignment file (e.g. BAM or SAM file); or (b) m 3) by excluding high resolution tiles from CSI score determinations, i.e., tiles that overlap with the targeted genomic region (e.g., by masking tiles that overlap with the genomic region covered by the targeted enrichment library). In the combined sequencing of non-enriched and enriched libraries, the step of masking the targeted enrichment region of the genome obtained from the enriched library ensures that the coverage differences introduced by targeted enrichment do not affect CSI analysis. In a possible embodiment, the analysis of sequences from the enriched nucleic acid library comprises making variant calls according to known methods. The data obtained from this analysis regarding Variant Allele Fractions (VAF) are additional information that can be used to further characterize patient DNA samples. In possible embodiments, the HRD status of the sample may be derived from the CSI status, the variant call results (e.g., if one or more variants in genes associated with homologous repair defects are identified, such as, but not limited to, certain variants in BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes), or any combination thereof (e.g., if the CSI status is identified as positive or if one or more variants in genes associated with homologous repair defects are identified). In a possible embodiment, variant call analysis may be advanced, and CSI analysis may be performed on the sample according to the computer-based method described herein only if variant call results do not identify HRD status of the sample, in order to identify possible HRD status from genomic instability along the whole genome of the sample. Experiment-example 1 In the first experiment, the CNN of FIG. 9 has been trained using low-pass WGS coverage data measured in a subset of 133 fresh frozen tumor samples contained in 560breast cancer patients, where BRCA defect status and HRD status (defined by HRDetect score) are publicly available, refer to Nik-Zaineal et al, 'Landscape of somatic mutations in 560breast cancer whole-Genome sequences,' Nature 534,47-54 (2016) '-datasets from Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and International Cancer Genome Consortium ICGC available at European Genome-phenome Archive EGA (https:// www.ebi.ac.uk/ega/sites/EGAS 00001001178), and refer to' HRDetect is a predictor of BRCA and BRCA2 deficiency based on mutational signatures ', H.Davies et al, nature Medicine,2017, 3 months 13 on-line. This original training dataset consisting of 133 publicly available real samples was enhanced to 3083 artificial training samples. The data enhancement was performed to maintain the same purity-ploidy profile observed in the original dataset. The artificial samples obtained by data amplification were used only for training and validation. A significant portion of the original dataset (69 out of 202 samples from 560breast cancer studies) was reserved for testing and did not participate in the data enhancement process. The original BAM file for each tumor sample is first downsampled to 1000 ten thousand peer readings to simulate a low-pass WGS, and the coverage signal is first pre-computed using a first set of 100kbp high resolution coverage blocks and pre-processed by performing sample and GC normalization. The resulting normalized coverage signal (y-axis) is shown for the whole genome (excluding sex chromosomes) of the HRD-samples in fig. 10 a) and the hrd+ samples in fig. 10 b), respectively (x-axis). The X-axis gives the genomic coordinates of the vertical dashed line of each chromosome boundary. The normalized coverage data is further collapsed to an average 3Mbp target block size of 2.5Mpb to 3.5Mbp using the adaptive tiling strategy of fig. 3. Fig. 11 illustrates the resulting coverage data for 133 raw training samples ordered by their CSI states as a one-dimensional signal, with HR defective samples on top of the Y-axis, for each sample row, before applying a spatial arrangement method according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. The X-axis shows the genomic coordinates of the vertical dashed line of each chromosome boundary. The normalized coverage data of the samples in the training dataset are further spatially arranged to form a two-dimensional array of 84 block x 22 chromosomes for training the CNN model to predict HRD states. The coverage area blocks of 22 chromosomes are plotted in 22 rows, from chr1 to chr22, aligned relative to their centromere blocks. For shorter chromosome arms, empty blocks are filled by copying the value of the nearest telomere block in the same row. Fig. 7 a) shows an array of generated HRD samples and fig. 7 b) shows an array of generated hrd+ samples. Fig. 12 shows the results of applying the trained CNN to a complete data set of 202 samples (left), including 69 test samples not used for training (denoted as 'BRCAness' status indication measured at CNN output, then converted to probabilities by softmax), and the results of prior art HRD scores (obtained by averaging LOH, LST and TAI scores) (right), classifier based on HRDetect scores. As can be seen from the histogram shown in fig. 12, the proposed method is superior to the HRD score method of the prior art in predicting HRDetect positive samples, whether the entire 202 real sample sets are tested or only 69 sample sets not used for training the machine learning model. Fig. 13 shows three HRDetect scores (top), HRD scores (bottom) and SOPHiA CSI (denoted here as BRCAness) scores obtained at the trained CNN (middle) output for each of the 69 samples in the test set. In each individual picture, the samples are ordered from left to right in increasing fractional results. Samples without BRCA defects appear light grey. Samples of BRCA defects are shown in dark grey (different grey levels are used to indicate the type of mutation that caused the BRCA defect). As demonstrated in fig. 13, the HRDetect score and SOPHiA BRCAness CSI score were very high for all BRCA defect samples. This result shows that CSI indicators are better than HRD scores in identifying BRCA defective samples. Experiment-example 2-high grade ovarian serous adenocarcinoma Ovkate in a single wet laboratory workflow Binding of lpWGS by cells to capture-based target plates OVKATE (RRID: CVCL_3110) cells (https:// web. Expasy. Org/cellosaurus/CVCL_3110) were subjected to low-throughput whole genome sequencing and capture-based target plate. DNA was extracted using dnasy blood and tissue kit (Qiagen) according to the manufacturer's instructions. A full genome sequencing library was then prepared using the SOPHiA gene library preparation kit. A portion of the whole genome library was used for target enrichment using a panel of probes encompassing HRR pathway-related genes, and using the SOPHiA gene capture scheme. The enriched library and whole genome library were then sequenced together on a Nextseq Mid flow cell (Illumina). Both types of libraries were loaded and equilibrated on flow cells to achieve a coverage of approximately 1-2X on the genome and over 1000X on the target area of the capture plate. Fig. 15 shows an exemplary workflow for analyzing lpWGS and data obtained after directional acquisition. DNA extracted from cultured Ovkate cells was processed according to the NGS workflow that combined low-pass WGS and targeted enrichment. The NGS data is bioinformatically processed to produce a BAM file that contains read information aligned to a reference genome. Reads mapped to the targeted region can make variant calls and measure the allele fraction of the enriched region, fig. 15C (right, C2 in fig. 15C). After masking the region targeted by the capture enrichment method, reads from the lp-WGS region can calculate the coverage level profile for the whole genome. The latter is normalized to eliminate the bias, fig. 15C (left, C1 in fig. 15C), and processed with CNN to calculate the HRD score. Ovkate cells were classified as HRD positive (score 15.8). Thus, binding to lpWGS and capture-based target sequencing allows parallel detection of sample CSI status and mutant HRD status of the gene of interest. Experiment-example 3-enhanced training data was obtained In one experiment, 169 real samples of fresh frozen tissue with known HRD status were first selected from the publicly available data of Nik-Zainal et al, 'Landscape of somatic mutations in560breast cancer whole-genome sequences', nature 534,47-54 (2016). For each artificial sample, chromosomes in a random number of real samples having the same HRD state can be randomly combined to create a data enhancement (DA) training sample. The number of samples that create the artificial sample may be a random number drawn from an exponential distribution using: n=kexp (-kx), x is a random number, k=1/3. Using such an approach may ensure that only a limited number of sample data is combined into an artificial sample. Next, the sample with the lowest purity/ploidy ratio in the pool is determined, and the purity of all other samples is reduced so that the purity/ploidy ratio of all samples in the pool is equal to this ratio. This can prevent the introduction of differences in coverage amplitude between randomly selected chromosomes from samples with different tumor purity and ploidy (fig. 16A). To achieve this, the purity was reduced in the computer (in-silico) by adding sequencing reads from normal samples (FIG. 16B). This strategy ensures that the coverage difference amplitude for a given ploidy is observed to be constant across all chromosomes for data-enhanced samples in all DA samples (fig. 16C), but introduces a bias in the purity/ploidy ratio of the DA training data. In particular, the distribution of purity and ploidy of these samples tends to be lower than that observed for the original sample set. Metropolis-Hastings and Gibbs sampling methods were applied to take this potential interference factor into account and ensure that the resulting purity/ploidy profile of 4403 reserved DA samples matched the original samples. Such a set of DA training data may be used to train a machine learning model. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art of machine learning that such data enhancement strategies may facilitate training of CSI classifier machine learning models when large amounts of data may be needed to support the performance of certain classes of methods, such as HRDs. Data enhancements may be prepared in the computer to increase the size and diversity of the training data set. Successful data enhancement policies may preserve key attributes of the enhanced data set, thereby rendering the artificial data indistinguishable from the real data. Further advantages and benefits of the proposed method The proposed machine learning methods further offer additional advantages, as they lend themselves to the availability of more and more personalized medical data, especially in oncology practice. They do not require explicit biological models (e.g., preferably suspected events occurring around certain chromosomal arm regions, such as telomeres or centromeres) to establish predictive features suitable for guiding diagnosis, prognosis and/or treatment. When a semi-supervised training framework is employed, data enhancement facilitates the development of a more robust data model that is less sensitive to noise data or low tumor content in DNA samples. As more data is available, the model may be retrained without the need to reconfigure the genome analysis system and workflow in operation, as only the model parameters change. The training model originally developed for a particular application (e.g., breast cancer) may be transferred to other applications (e.g., ovarian, prostate, or pancreatic cancer) and/or other sample types (FFPE, FFT, cfDNA, ctDNA). They may also be used to predict different states, including responses to different therapies and treatments. The methods presented herein are applicable to lpWGS sequencing data and therefore are cheaper, easier to implement and deploy in standard clinical practice than prior art methods using high coverage (> 30X) WGS or SNP arrays. Other embodiments and applications While various embodiments have been described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example, and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope. Indeed, it will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art how to implement alternative embodiments after reading the foregoing description. While the exemplary embodiments and applications of the proposed methods have been related to targeting next generation sequencing genomic analysis, it will be apparent to those skilled in the bioinformatics arts that they may also be applicable to detecting and classifying HR defects from other tumor sample genomic analysis workflows, for example using genomic data in SNP array and array CGH wet laboratory workflows. SNP arrays, array CGH, or Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) techniques can be used to generate counts that vary with copy number. In addition, low throughput WGS (0.1X to 5X) or large targeted enrichment sequencing libraries, such as available from WES (whole exome sequencing) or CES (capillary electrophoresis) plates, can be used alone or in combination to generate input data for the proposed machine learning method. In addition, low-throughput WGS can be combined with small targeting plates (amplicon-based or capture-based) in a single or separate wet-cell workflow. Possibly, off-target readings from the targeted sequencing method may also be entered into the multi-dimensional array as primary or supplemental input data, while still being well suited for the trained neural network as an input data processing component in the CSI analyzer 123 architecture. While the exemplary examples and applications of the proposed method have been described in relation to coverage data signal arrays arranged as images of chromosome coverage areas arranged in rows and vertically with their centromere areas, various other embodiments are possible as will be apparent to those skilled in the bioinformatics arts. Fig. 14 shows an exemplary alignment of coverage signal images for each chromosome arm (p-arm and q-arm) from at least two analyzed chromosomes (chromosome a and chromosome B) relative to at least one region adjacent to a centromere region or telomere region. In a possible embodiment, the chromosome arms may be represented as rows in an array, and the centromere blocks of all arms may be aligned along the first column of the array. In another possible embodiment, the chromosome arms may be represented as rows in an array, and the telomere blocks of all arms may be aligned along the first column of the array. In another possible embodiment, the chromosome arms may be represented as rows in an array, and the centromere blocks of all arms may be aligned along the last column of the array. In another possible embodiment, the chromosome arms may be represented as rows in an array, and the telomere blocks of all arms may be aligned along the last column of the array. In a possible embodiment, the chromosome arms may be represented as columns in an array, and the centromere blocks of all chromosome arms may be aligned along the first row of the array. In another possible embodiment, the chromosome arms may be represented as columns in an array, and the telomere blocks of all arms may be aligned along the first row of the array. In another possible embodiment, the chromosome arms may be represented as columns in an array, and the centromere blocks of all arms may be aligned along the last row of the array. In another possible embodiment, the chromosome arms may be represented as columns in an array, and the telomere blocks of all arms may be aligned along the last row of the array. In a possible embodiment, the entire chromosome may be represented as a column in an array, and the centromere blocks of all chromosomes may be aligned along a row of the array. The aligned row of centromere blocks may be in the centre of the array or may be shifted up or down from the centre depending on the respective block lengths of the p-arm and q-arm of the chromosome set. The p-arm related and q-arm related regions of the chromosome may be above and below the centromere block row, respectively, or vice versa. In a possible embodiment, the entire chromosome may be represented as a row in an array, and the centromere blocks of all chromosomes may be aligned along a column of the array. The aligned columns of centromere patches may be in the middle of the array or may be offset from the middle to the right or left depending on the respective patch lengths of the p-arm and q-arm of the chromosome set. The region associated with the p-arm and the region associated with the q-arm of the chromosome may be moved rightward and leftward from the centromere region column, respectively, or vice versa. In a possible embodiment, the entire chromosome may be represented as a row in the array, and one of the two telomere blocks of all chromosomes may be aligned along a column of the array. In a possible embodiment, the aligned column of telomere blocks may be the first column of the array. In another possible embodiment, the aligned column of telomere blocks may be the last column of the array. In a possible embodiment, p-arm telomere blocks can be used for alignment. In another possible embodiment, q-arm telomere blocks can be used for alignment. In another possible embodiment, the alignment of the p-arm or q-arm telomere blocks may be selected individually for each chromosome. In a possible embodiment, the entire chromosome may be represented as a column in the array, and one of the two telomere blocks of all chromosomes may be aligned along a row of the array. In a possible embodiment, the aligned row of telomere blocks may be the first row of the array. In another possible embodiment, the aligned row of telomere blocks may be the last row of the array. In a possible embodiment, p-arm telomere blocks can be used for alignment. In another possible embodiment, q-arm telomere blocks can be used for alignment. In another possible embodiment, the alignment of the p-arm or q-arm telomere blocks may be selected individually for each chromosome. The genomic data analyzer 120 computer system (also referred to herein as a 'system') 120 may be programmed or otherwise configured to implement different genomic data analysis methods other than the CSI and HRD analyzer systems and methods described herein, such as receiving and/or incorporating sequencing data, invoking copy number changes, and/or annotating variants to further characterize a tumor sample. The machine learning model may employ extended multidimensional array inputs that include information such as GC content, tile size, mappability, map quality, variant Allele Fraction (VAF), and the like in addition to the normalized coverage data two-dimensional array inputs. The machine learning model may also employ additional scalar inputs to provide tumor content information (purity), sample ploidy information. Genomic data analysis systems can also be used to assess the quality of a sample (i.e., measure the extent of FFPE degradation). Genomic data analysis systems may also be used to classify cancers according to their CSI status level. Genomic data analyzer systems may also be used to stratify cancers according to their CSI status and association with immune escape events (Bakhoum et al 2018, cell 174 (6), p.1347-1360). While the exemplary embodiments and applications of the proposed method have been described with CNNs as the trained machine learning model, in a possible embodiment (not shown), a random forest machine learning model may be used alternately. Random forest or random decision forest is a set learning method for classification, regression and other tasks that operates by building a large number of decision trees at training time and outputting patterns of classes (classification) or average predictions of individual trees (regression). Random decision forest corrects the habit of the decision tree over-fitting its training set, which makes it a good candidate for high-dimensional input data. Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. The terminology used in the description herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. In the specification and the appended claims, the singular forms 'a,' 'an,' and 'the' include the singular forms: 'a' and 'an' and 'the' also include plural forms. Unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention and may be modified by the term 'about'. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques. Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value, however, inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. Every numerical range given throughout this specification will include every narrower numerical range that falls within such broader numerical range, as if such narrower numerical ranges were all expressly written herein. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art of digital data communications that the methods described herein may be applied indifferently to a variety of data structures, such as data files or data streams. Thus, the terms 'data,' 'data set,' 'data structure,' 'data field,' 'file,' or 'stream' may be used indifferently in this specification. Although the above detailed description contains many specifics, these should not be construed as limiting the scope of embodiments of the invention, but merely as providing illustrations of some of the several embodiments. Furthermore, it should be understood that any figures showing prominent functions and advantages are intended to be illustrative only. The disclosed methods have sufficient flexibility and configurability so that they can be utilized in ways other than those shown.

### Claims

Claims (21) 1. A computer-based method of determining the Homologous Recombination Defect (HRD) status of a subject DNA sample, the method comprising: obtaining whole genome sequencing reads of a set of subject DNA samples to be analyzed, comparing the sequencing reads of the set of subject DNA samples with a reference genome, wherein the reference genome is divided into a plurality of blocks, each block belonging to the same genomic region of a chromosome arm in a whole genome chromosome to be analyzed, counting and normalizing the values of the alignment readings in each block along each chromosome arm to obtain a coverage signal of said chromosome arm, arranging the coverage signals of the chromosome arms into a coverage data signal array of the subject DNA sample, inputting the coverage data signal array into a trained machine learning model, wherein the model has been trained using a set of samples of known homologous recombination defect states to distinguish between coverage data signal arrays from samples positive for homologous recombination defect states and coverage data signal arrays from samples negative for homologous recombination defect states, determining a homologous recombination defect score (HRD score) of the subject DNA sample, and A negative, positive, or indeterminate Homologous Recombination Defect (HRD) status of a subject DNA sample is determined from the HRD score of the trained machine learning model. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein a set of sequencing reads is obtained from whole genome sequencing, wherein the read depth coverage is at most 30X. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein a set of sequencing reads is obtained from low throughput whole genome sequencing, wherein the read depth coverage is at least 0.1X and at most 5X. 4. A method according to claims 1 to 3, wherein counting and normalizing the values of the alignment readings in each bin along each chromosome arm to obtain a coverage signal for the chromosome arm comprises normalizing the coverage signal for each sample and/or normalizing by GC content to apply GC-offset correction. 5. The method of claims 1 to 4, wherein the coverage signals of the chromosome arms are arranged into one-dimensional coverage data signal vectors or two-dimensional coverage data signal images. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the coverage signals of the chromosome arms are arranged into a two-dimensional coverage data signal image by row-wise comparing the coverage data signal for each chromosome with the centromere region of each chromosome arm, i.e. the nearest region adjacent to the centromere region of the chromosome arm. 7. The method of claims 1-6, wherein the machine learning model is pre-trained using a set of tumor data samples with known homologous recombination defect states as training tags. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the training dataset is enhanced with artificial sample data generated by combining data of chromosomes of a data sample with known homologous recombination defect status tags. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the data enhanced samples are generated to represent a purity-to-ploidy ratio distribution as observed in a real sample dataset. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference genome is divided into a first set of up to 100kbp blocks, and further comprising the step of collapsing the 100kbp blocks into a second set of at least 500kbp larger blocks prior to arranging the coverage signal on each chromosome arm. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the blocks of the first set of blocks have a uniform size of at most 100kbp, and the blocks of the second set of blocks have a size of 2.5 to 3.5Mbp and are obtained by pooling 25 to 35 blocks of 100kbp in the first set of blocks. 12. An in vitro method of determining the Homologous Recombination Defect (HRD) status of a DNA sample of a patient, the method comprising: -providing a DNA fragment from a patient sample; -constructing a library comprising said fragments overlapping a set of chromosomes; -sequencing the library to achieve a whole genome sequencing coverage of at most 30X, preferably to achieve a genome sequencing coverage of at least 0.1X and at most 5X; and determining the HRD status of the patient sample based on an analysis of the trained machine learning model obtained according to claim 1. 13. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the patient DNA sample is tumor extracellular free DNA (cfDNA), fresh Frozen Tissue (FFT), or formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) sample. 14. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the HRD score or HRD status of the patient sample is a predictor of tumor response to a cancer treatment regimen. 15. The method of claim 15, wherein the cancer treatment regimen is selected from the group consisting of alkylating agents, platinum-based chemotherapeutic agents, carboplatin, cisplatin, iproplatin, nedaplatin, oxaliplatin, picoplatin, nitrogen mustard, chlorambucil, melphalan, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, estramustine, carmustine, lomustine, fotemustine, streptozotocin, busulfan, pipobroman, procarbazine, dacarbazine, thiotepa, temozolomide, and/or other antineoplastic platinum complex compounds, DNA damaging agents, radiation therapeutic agents, anthracyclines, epirubicin, doxorubicin; topoisomerase I inhibitors, camptothecins, topotecan, irinotecan, PARP (poly ADP-ribose polymerase) inhibitors, olapanib, lu Kapa, nilaparib, tazopanib, irinotecan, CEP 9722, MK 4827, BMN-673, 3-aminobenzamide, verapiri, pamil or E7016. 16. A method of selecting a cancer patient for treatment with a platinum chemotherapeutic agent, a DNA damaging agent, an anthracycline, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor, comprising the step of detecting that a tumor patient sample is HRD positive according to the method of claim 1. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the patient has a cancer selected from the group consisting of high grade serous ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, breast cancer, or pancreatic cancer. 18. A method of training a machine learning algorithm to determine a Homologous Recombination Defect (HRD) status of a subject DNA sample, the method comprising: the machine learning supervised training algorithm is input with a coverage data signal array from samples known to be positive for homologous recombination defect states and a coverage data signal array from samples known to be negative for homologous recombination defect states. 19. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the trained machine learning model is a random forest model, a neural network model, a deep learning classifier, or a convolutional neural network model. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the neural network model trained machine learning model is a convolutional neural network trained to produce at its output a single-labeled binary classification of positive or negative HRD states, or a single-labeled multi-class classification of positive, negative or indeterminate HRD states, or a scalar HRD score representing HRD states. 21. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the machine learning model has been trained in semi-supervised mode using a data enhancement set generated from chromosome sampling data from a set of real samples sharing the same HRD states and the same normalized purity and ploidy ratios.
