## Patent Reference

- Title: Polygenic risk score for in vitro fertilization
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN114728069B/en

### Abstract

Abstract Translated from Chinese 提供的是用于确定与胚胎相关的疾病风险的方法,其包括基于(i)胚胎中的一种或多种遗传变体,(ii)父系单倍型,(iii)母系单倍型,(iv)父系单倍型的传递概率,和(v)母系单倍型的传递概率构建胚胎的基因组；基于胚胎的构建的基因组为胚胎指派多基因风险得分；基于多基因风险得分确定与胚胎相关的疾病风险；和确定引起疾病的遗传变体和/或来自父系基因组和/或母系基因组的单倍型向胚胎的传递。还提供的是为母亲和潜在精子捐献者的潜在子女确定一系列疾病风险的方法。还提供的是确定个体中的疾病风险的方法。 Provided are methods for determining disease risk associated with an embryo, comprising constructing a genome of an embryo based on (i) one or more genetic variants in the embryo, (ii) a paternal haplotype, (iii) a maternal haplotype, (iv) a transmission probability of the paternal haplotype, and (v) a transmission probability of the maternal haplotype; assigning a polygenic risk score to the embryo based on the constructed genome of the embryo; determining disease risk associated with the embryo based on the polygenic risk score; and determining the transmission of disease-causing genetic variants and/or haplotypes from the paternal genome and/or maternal genome to the embryo. Also provided are methods for determining a range of disease risks for potential children of a mother and a potential sperm donor. Also provided are methods for determining disease risk in an individual.

### Description

Description Multi-gene risk score for in vitro fertilizationCross-reference to related applications The present application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. Nos. 62/908,374 and 63/062,044, filed on 9, 30, and 8, 6, 2020, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Technical Field Described are methods for determining the risk of disease. Background Currently, in vitro fertilization clinic tests are known for persistent aneuploidy and monogenic disease in the family. However, every 2 couples have a family history of1 pair with common diseases that are affected by a combination of genetic, environmental and lifestyle risk factors. Furthermore, currently, sperm donor clinics test a tendency to develop a subset of diseases caused by a single-gene disorder. There is a need in the art for improved ability to predict inherited disease risk in individuals and in potential future children. Summary of The Invention Provided is a method for determining a risk of an embryo-related disease comprising performing whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from a paternal subject to identify a genome related to the paternal subject, performing whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from a maternal subject to identify a genome related to the maternal subject, phase-separating the genome related to the paternal subject to identify a paternal haplotype, phase-separating the genome related to the maternal subject to identify a maternal haplotype, performing rare genotyping on the embryo to identify one or more genetic variants in the embryo, (ii) paternal haplotype, (iii) maternal haplotype, (iv) transfer probability of the paternal haplotype, and (v) transfer probability of the maternal haplotype to construct a genome of the embryo, assigning a polygenic risk score to the embryo based on the constructed genome of the embryo, determining a risk of an embryo-related disease based on the polygenic risk score, determining a genetic and/or genetic variant in the embryo to identify the embryo based on the paternal genetic variant in the embryo, (ii) transfer probability of the maternal haplotype, (iv) transfer of the maternal haplotype to the embryo, and the genetic variant in the genetic variant and/or genetic variant from the maternal haplotype and the maternal gene and the genetic variant and the transfer risk of the maternal haplotype. Also provided is a method for outputting a disease risk score associated with an embryo, the method comprising receiving a first dataset comprising paternal genomic data and maternal genomic data, aligning sequence reads with a reference genome and determining genotypes across the genome using the paternal genomic data and maternal genomic data, receiving a second dataset comprising paternal and maternal rare genomic data, phase separating the paternal genomic data and maternal genomic data to identify paternal and maternal haplotypes, receiving a third dataset comprising paternal transfer probability, and maternal transfer probability, applying an embryo reconstruction algorithm to (i) the paternal and maternal haplotypes, (ii) the transfer probability of each of the paternal and maternal haplotypes to determine the constructed genome of the embryo, applying a polygenic model to the constructed genome of the embryo, outputting a disease risk associated with the embryo, determining genetic and/or genetic variants causing the disease and/or genetic variants causing the embryo and/or the transfer probability of the embryo and the genetic variants causing the embryo and/or the genetic variants causing the loss of the embryo. Some methods further include outputting a combined disease risk associated with the embryo based on the polygenic disease risk and the transfer of genetic variants that cause monogenic disease and/or haplotypes from the paternal genome and/or maternal genome to the embryo. In some aspects, the method further comprises determining a paternal haplotype and/or a maternal haplotype using the grandfather genomic data and/or the grandmother genomic data. In some aspects, the method further comprises determining a disease risk of the embryo using the population genotype data and/or population allele frequency. In some aspects, the method further comprises predicting disease risk using the family history of the disease and/or other risk factors. In some aspects, whole genome sequencing is performed using standard, PCR-free, ligation reads (i.e., synthetic long reads), or long read schemes. In some aspects, rare genotyping is performed using microarray technology, next generation sequencing technology for embryo biopsies, or cell culture medium sequencing. In some aspects, phase separation is performed using population-based and/or molecular-based methods (e.g., ligation reads). In some aspects, the polygenic risk score is determined by summing effects across loci in the disease model. In some aspects, the population genotype data comprises allele frequencies and individual genotypes of at least about 300,000 unrelated individuals in the uk biological library. In some aspects, the population phenotype data comprises both self-reported and clinically reported (e.g., ICD-10 code) phenotypes of at least about 300,000 unrelated individuals in the uk biological library. In some aspects, the population genotype data comprises population family history data comprising self-reporting data of at least about 300,000 unrelated individuals in the uk biological library and information derived from the relatives of those individuals in the uk biological library. In some aspects, the disease risk is further determined by the score of the genetic information shared by the affected individuals. Also provided is a method for determining disease risk of one or more potential children, the method comprising performing whole genome sequencing on (i) an intended mother and one or more potential sperm donors or (ii) an intended father and one or more potential ovum donors, separating the genome components of (i) an intended mother and one or more potential sperm donors or (ii) an intended father and one or more potential ovum donors, simulating gametes based on recombination rate estimates, combining the simulated gametes to generate a genome of the one or more potential children, assigning a polygenic risk score, and determining a distribution of disease probability based on the polygenic risk score. Also provided is a method for outputting a probability distribution of a potential child's disease risk, the method comprising receiving a first dataset comprising genomic data of an intended mother, receiving one or more datasets comprising genomic data from one or more intended sperm donors, simulating gametes using estimated recombination rates (e.g., derived from the HapMap alliance), generating genomes of one or more potential children using potential gamete combinations, estimating a polygenic risk score for the genome of each of the one or more potential children, and outputting the distribution of disease probabilities based on the polygenic risk scores. Also provided is a method for determining a range of disease risk for (i) an intended mother and a potential sperm donor or (ii) an intended father and a potential ovum donor, the method comprising (a) (i) performing whole genome sequencing on the intended mother and one or more potential sperm donors to obtain a maternal genotype and one or more sperm donor genotypes or (ii) performing whole genome sequencing on the intended father and one or more potential ovum donors to obtain a paternal genotype and one or more ovum donor genotypes, (b) estimating a likely genotype of one or more potential children using (i) the maternal genotype and the potential sperm donor genotype or (ii) the intended father genotype and the potential ovum donor genotype, and (c) using the lowest likely genetic risk score of the potential genotype potential children of the potential children, and (d) using the highest likely genetic risk score of the potential children estimated. Also provided is a method for outputting a range of risk of a disease for either (i) an intended mother and a potential sperm donor or (ii) an intended father and a potential ovum donor, the method comprising (a) receiving a first dataset comprising genomic data of the intended mother or genomic data of the intended father, (b) receiving one or more datasets comprising genomic data from one or more intended sperm donors or one or more intended ovum donors, (c) deriving a likely genotype of the potential child using the genotypes of (i) the intended mother and the potential sperm donor or (ii) the intended father and the potential ovum donor, (d) estimating a lowest polygenic risk score for the potential child by selecting the genotypes at each site in the model that minimize the score ((c) estimating a highest gene score by selecting the genotypes at each site in the model that maximize the score ((c)), and (d) calculating a highest score using the highest gene scores and (f) and the highest risk of the disease. In some aspects, the method uses a dense genotyping array for sperm donors followed by genotype interpolation of sites of interest that are not directly genotyped. In some aspects, the method uses the family history of the disease and other relevant risk factors to determine the risk of the disease. In some aspects, whole genome sequencing is performed using standard, PCR-free, ligation reads (i.e., synthetic long reads), or long read schemes. In some aspects, phase separation is performed using population-based and/or molecular-based methods (e.g., ligation reads). In some aspects, the polygenic risk score is determined by summing the effects across all sites in the disease model. In some aspects, the population genotype data comprises allele frequencies and individual genotypes of at least about 300,000 unrelated individuals in the uk biological library. In some aspects, the population phenotype data comprises both self-reported and clinically reported (e.g., ICD-10 code) phenotypes of at least about 300,000 unrelated individuals in the uk biological library. In some aspects, the population family history comprises self-reported data for at least about 300,000 unrelated individuals in the uk biological library and information derived from relatives of those individuals in the uk biological library. Brief Description of Drawings FIG. 1 depicts one exemplary method for predicting and reducing the risk of disease. FIG. 2 depicts a flowchart that provides one exemplary method for determining a polygenic risk score. FIG. 3 depicts one exemplary method for determining disease risk in a child. FIG. 4 depicts exemplary inputs that may be used to determine a probability of a disease. Fig. 5 depicts a flow chart showing an exemplary method for selecting embryos based on the likelihood of a disease. Figure 6 provides a graphical representation of a risk reduction curve associated with a particular disease. Fig. 7 depicts a flowchart that provides an exemplary method for selecting a sperm donor. Figure 8 provides a graphical representation of risk reduction curves generated for multiple donors for some autoimmune disorders. Fig. 9 provides an exemplary disease risk profile associated with multiple sperm donors. Fig. 10 provides a graphical representation of ROC curves showing the improvement in predictive power associated with determining the risk of prostate cancer. FIG. 11 illustrates one exemplary method of predicting the risk of an embryo-related disease. Fig. 12 illustrates an exemplary disease risk transfer prediction graph associated with HLA typing for rheumatoid arthritis. FIG. 13 provides an exemplary scaffold for identifying chromosome length phasing blocks to improve disease risk prediction capability. FIG. 14 provides a graphical representation of the distribution of PRSs (mean scaled to 0, standard deviation 1) for rheumatoid arthritis cases and controls. Figure 15 shows OR in ten-digit for rheumatoid arthritis. Fig. 16 shows the life-long risk of various conditions in several embryos, with fig. 16A showing the risk of a first embryo (called 'embryo 2'), fig. 16B showing the risk of a second embryo (called 'embryo 3'), and fig. 16C showing the risk of a third embryo (called 'embryo 4'). Figure 17A shows the life-to-life risk and risk ratio in several embryos compared to the general population risk and figure 17B shows the life-to-life risk of embryos as a function of the polygenic risk score. Fig. 18 provides an illustration of an exemplary parental support method for determining the risk of an embryo disease. Figure 19 illustrates one potential workflow for whole genome prediction of embryos. FIG. 20 provides an illustration of how the whole chromosome of an individual can be obtained by performing whole genome sequencing of the individual, its companion and two or more children, and determining which loci are inherited by each child. FIG. 21 is a block diagram of an example computing device. Detailed Description Unless defined otherwise, technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Unless otherwise indicated, the materials mentioned in the following description and examples are available from commercial sources. As used herein, the singular forms 'a,' 'an,' and 'the' mean both the singular and the plural, unless expressly specified otherwise. The term 'about' means that the values understood are not limited to the exact values listed herein, and are intended to mean values that substantially surround the values without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein, 'about' will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art and will vary to some extent depending on the context in which it is used. If the usage of the term is not clear to a person skilled in the art depending on the context in which it is used, 'about' will mean up to 10% of the specific term is added or subtracted. The term 'gene' relates to a DNA or RNA segment encoding a polypeptide or functioning in an organism. The gene may be a wild-type gene, or a variant or mutation of a wild-type gene. 'Gene of interest' refers to a gene or variant of a gene that may or may not be known to be associated with a particular phenotype or risk of a particular phenotype. 'Expression' refers to the process of transcribing a polynucleotide from a DNA template (such as into mRNA or other RNA transcripts) and/or the subsequent translation of the transcribed mRNA into a peptide, polypeptide, or protein. Gene expression encompasses not only cellular gene expression, but also transcription and translation of nucleic acids in cloning systems and in any other context. In the case where the nucleic acid sequence encodes a peptide, polypeptide, or protein, gene expression involves the production of a nucleic acid (e.g., DNA or RNA, such as mRNA) and/or a peptide, polypeptide, or protein. Thus, 'expression level' may refer to the amount of a nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA) or protein in a sample. 'Haplotype' refers to a set of genes or alleles inherited together or expected to inherit together from a single ancestor (such as a father, mother, grandfather, ancestor, etc.). The term 'ancestor' refers to a human whose subject is its offspring, or in the case of an embryo, the potential subject will be its offspring. In a preferred aspect, ancestor refers to a mammalian subject, such as a human subject. Diseases and methods Provided are methods for identifying diseases caused entirely or in part by inheritance, or at risk of having or inheriting a disease. Genetic disorders may be caused by mutations in one gene (monogenic disorders), mutations in multiple genes (polygenic disorders), a combination of genetic mutations and environmental factors (multifactorial disorders), or chromosomal abnormalities (changes in the number or structure of the entire chromosome (structure carrying the gene)). In some aspects, the disease is a polygenic disorder, a multifactorial condition, or a rare monogenic disorder (e.g., previously unidentified in a family). Some aspects include determining whether the embryo is a carrier of the genetic disorder. Some aspects include determining whether an embryo will develop into a subject with or likely to have a genetic disorder. Some aspects include determining whether an embryo will develop into a subject having or likely to have one or more phenotypes associated with a genetic disorder. Some aspects include selecting an embryo based on the genetic composition of the embryo. For example, some aspects include selecting embryos that are at low risk for harboring a genetic disorder. Some aspects include selecting embryos that would have a low risk of having a genetic disorder if developed into a child or adult. Some aspects include implanting the selected embryo into the uterus of a subject. Such methods are described in great detail, for example Balaban et al.,'Laboratory Procedures for Human In Vitro Fertilization,'Semin.Reprod.Med.,32(4):272-82(2014),, incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Some aspects include assessing disease risk associated with embryos formed using one or more sperm donors. Some aspects include selecting a sperm donor based on a disease risk. Some aspects include fertilising an egg in vitro with selected sperm. Some aspects include determining a health report for an individual, e.g., based on the presence or absence of a polygenic or rare monogenic variant. Some aspects include determining a distribution of disease probabilities, e.g., based on a polygenic risk score. The diseases that can be screened are not limited. In some aspects, the disease is an autoimmune condition. In some aspects, the disease is associated with a particular HLA type. In some aspects, the disease is cancer. Exemplary conditions include coronary artery disease, atrial fibrillation, type 2 diabetes, breast cancer, age-related macular degeneration, psoriasis, colorectal cancer, deep vein thrombosis, parkinson's disease, glaucoma, rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease, vitiligo, ulcerative colitis, crohn's disease, lupus, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, type 1 diabetes, schizophrenia, multiple sclerosis, familial hypercholesterolemia, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, melanoma, cervical cancer, depression, and migraine. Some exemplary diseases include single gene disorders (e.g., sickle cell disease, cystic fibrosis), chromosome copy number disorders (e.g., turner syndrome, down's syndrome), repeat amplified disorders (e.g., fragile X syndrome), or more complex polygenic disorders (e.g., type 1 diabetes, schizophrenia, parkinson's disease, etc.). Other exemplary diseases are described in Physcians' DESK REFERENCE (PRD Network 71st ed. 2016) and THE MERCK MANUAL OF DIAGNOSIS AND THERAPY (Merck 20th ed. 2018), each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. By definition, genetically complex diseases have multiple genetic loci that lead to disease risk. In these cases, a polygenic risk score may be calculated and used to stratify embryos into high risk and low risk categories. Embryo genome construction Provided are novel and inventive methods relating to embryo genome construction. In some aspects, construction uses chromosome length parental haplotypes and rare genotyping of parents and embryos (e.g., using SNP arrays or low coverage DNA sequencing) to achieve whole genome prediction in embryos. Such heterozygous approaches may combine genetic information from parents and other relatives (if available), such as grandparents and siblings (i.e., siblings), and haplotypes (e.g., dense haplotype blocks) obtained directly from DNA using molecular methods (e.g., long fragment read techniques, 10X Chromium techniques, minion systems). Chromosome length haplotypes can be used to predict the genome of an embryo in an in vitro fertilisation setting. Such predicted genomic sequences can be used to predict disease risk, both by direct measurement of the transmission of variants responsible for mendelian disorders and by constructing a multigenic risk score. In some aspects, the embryonic genome is constructed using haplotypes from two or more ancestors. In some aspects, the embryo genome is constructed using both a paternal haplotype and a maternal haplotype. In some aspects, the haplotype is a grandparent haplotype. In some aspects, the haplotype is an ancestral haplotype. In some aspects, the embryo genome is constructed using one or both of a paternal haplotype, a maternal haplotype, and a grandfather haplotype. In some aspects, the rare embryo genotype is obtained by sequencing cell-free DNA in the embryo culture medium, blastocyst fluid, or DNA obtained from a trophectoderm cell biopsy of an embryo. Some aspects include determining one or more haplotypes for constructing an embryonic genome. For example, such haplotypes can be determined based on the genomic sequence of the ancestral subject. Some aspects include identifying a genome associated with an ancestral subject. Some aspects include performing whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from an ancestral subject to identify the genome of the ancestral subject. Some aspects include using one or more sibling embryos to determine a haplotype. Such whole genome sequencing can be performed using any of a variety of techniques, such as standard, PCR-free, ligation reads (e.g., synthetic long reads), or long read schemes. Exemplary sequencing techniques are disclosed, for example, in Huang et al.,'Recent Advances in Experimental Whole Genome Haplotyping Methods,'Int'l.J.Mol.Sci.,18(1944):1-15(2017);Goodwin et al.,'Coming of age:ten years of next-generation sequencing technologies,'Nat.Rev.Genet.,17:333-351(2016);Wang et al.,'Efficient and unique cobarcoding of second-generation sequencing reads from long DNA molecules enabling cost-effective and accurate sequencing,haplotyping,and de novo assembly,'Genome Res.,29(5):798-808(2019); and Chen et al.,'Ultralow-input single-tube linked-read library method enables short-read second-generation sequencing systems to routinely generate highly accurate and economical long-range sequencing information,'Genome Res.,30(6):898-909(2020),, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Genomic split phase Some aspects include phase-splitting or estimation of the ancestral genome to identify one or more haplotypes. For example, such phase separation may be performed using population-based and/or molecular-based methods (such as ligation read methods). Exemplary phase separation techniques are disclosed, for example, in Choi et al.,'Comparison of phasing strategies for whole human genomes,'PLoS Genetics,14(4):e1007308(2018);Wang et al.,'Efficient and unique cobarcoding of second-generation sequencing reads from long DNA molecules enabling cost-effective and accurate sequencing,haplotyping,and de novo assembly,'Genome Res.,29(5):798-808(2019); and Chen et al.,'Ultralow-input single-tube linked-read library method enables short-read second-generation sequencing systems to routinely generate highly accurate and economical long-range sequencing information,'Genome Res.,30(6):898-909(2020),, each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In some aspects, phase separation uses self-ligating read sequencing, long fragment reading, phase separation based on fosmid pools, transposon sequencing with continuity maintained, whole genome sequencing, hi-C methods, sequencing based on dilution, targeted sequencing (including HLA typing), or microarray generated data. Some aspects include using a rare phasing genotype obtained independently to provide a scaffold to direct phase separation. Computer software such as HapCUT, SHAPEIT, maCH, BEAGLE or EAGLE can be used to phase-separate genotypes of progenitors. In some cases, the computer program uses a reference panel such as 1000genome or Haplotype Reference Consortium to phase-separate genotypes. In some cases, phase separation accuracy may be improved by adding genotype data from a relative, such as a grandparent, sibling, or child. Predicting fetal genomic sequences Some aspects include predicting the genome of an embryo using a rare genotyping combination of phased parent genomes with embryos, which may allow for the determination of the presence/absence of clinically relevant variants identified in parents and in embryos. This can be extended to include risk/susceptibility alleles identified in parents and HLA types. In some aspects, rare genotyping is obtained using next generation sequencing. Rare genotyping is described in great detail in Kumar et al.,'Whole genome prediction for preimplantation genetic diagnosis,'Genome Med.,7(1):Article 35,pages 1-8(2015);Srebniak et al.,'Genomic SNP array as a gold standard for prenatal diagnosis of foetal ultrasound abnormalities,'Molceular Cytogenet.,5:Article 14,pages 1-4(2012); and Bejjani et al.,'Clinical Utility of Contemporary Molecular Cytogenetics,'Annu.Rev.Genomics Hum.Genet.,9:71-86(2008),, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Rare genotyping may be performed on extracted portions of embryos. Thus, some aspects include extracting or obtaining one or more cells from an embryo (e.g., via biopsy). Some aspects include extracting or obtaining nucleic acid (e.g., DNA) from an embryo or from one or more cells from an embryo. Some aspects include extracting embryo material from embryo culture media. Some aspects use rare embryo genotypes as scaffolds for the fractionation of ancestral subject genome. Some aspects use information from one or more grandparent subjects (e.g., grandparents and/or grandparent subjects) to phase parent genome components. Some aspects use information from a large reference panel (e.g., population-based data) to phase parent genome components. In some aspects, embryos are reconstituted using biological samples obtained from one or more ancestral subjects. Exemplary biological samples include one or more tissues selected from brain, heart, lung, kidney, liver, muscle, bone, stomach, intestine, esophagus, and skin tissue, and/or one or more biological fluids selected from urine, blood, plasma, serum, saliva, semen, sputum, cerebrospinal fluid, mucus, sweat, vitreous humor, and milk. Some aspects include obtaining a biological sample from a subject. Some aspects include determining a probability of transfer of one or more ancestral haplotypes. In some aspects, the transfer of variants from one or more maternal heterozygous sites may involve sequencing the maternal genome, sequencing or genotyping one or more biopsies from embryos, assembling or splitting maternal DNA samples into haplotype blocks, using information from multiple embryos (e.g., parental support techniques) to construct chromosome length haplotypes for the parents, and predicting the inheritance or transfer of these haplotype blocks using statistical methods like HMM. In some aspects, the HMM is also capable of predicting transitions between haplotype blocks or correcting errors in maternal phase separation. The method of predicting the transfer of variants from one or more paternal heterozygous sites may involve sequencing the paternal genome, sequencing or genotyping one or more biopsies from embryos, assembling or splitting paternal DNA samples into haplotype blocks, utilizing information from multiple embryos to improve the continuity of the haplotype blocks with chromosome length, and predicting the inheritance or transfer of these haplotype blocks using statistical methods like HMM. In some aspects, the HMM is also capable of predicting transitions between haplotype blocks or correcting errors in maternal phase separation. The case where both the mother and father are heterozygous can be predicted in the manner described above. In the case where parents are homozygous for the same allele or different alleles, embryo genotypes are easily predicted. In some aspects, the probability of delivery is determined using the methods described in U.S. application Ser. No. 11/603,406;12/076,348; or 13/110,685; or PCT application Ser. No. PCT/US09/52730 or PCT/US10/050824, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In some aspects, regions with a transmission probability of 95% or higher are used to construct the embryonic genome. In some aspects, the embryo genome is constructed using one or more genes or genetic variants in the embryo. In some aspects, one or more genes or genetic variants are identified using rare genotyping of embryos. In some aspects, rare genotyping is performed using microarray technology. In some aspects, the embryo genome is constructed using the probability of transmission of (i) one or more genetic variants in the embryo, (ii) one or more ancestral haplotypes (e.g., a paternal haplotype and a maternal haplotype), and (iii) one or more haplotypes (e.g., a paternal haplotype and a maternal haplotype). In some aspects, rare genotyping is performed using next generation sequencing. Some aspects include embryo genome prediction using 1) the full genome sequence of two grandparents on each side of the home, 2) phased full genome sequences from each parent, 3) rare genotypes of parents measured by the array, and 4) rare genotypes of embryos. Without being bound by theory, it is believed that 99.8% predictive accuracy can be achieved across 96.9% fetal genomes using such methods for a well-studied CEPH family. Some aspects include the use of 1) a single grandparent WGS, 2) rare parental genotypes as measured by the array, and 3) a haplotype resolved reference panel to segment parental genome components. Some aspects include the use of 1) rare parental genotypes as measured by the array and 2) a reference panel of haplotype resolution (e.g., 1000 genome) to segment parental genome components. Some aspects include the use of a reference panel (e.g., 1000 genome) of haplotype resolution alone to phase parental genome. Risk determination Also provided are methods of determining the risk of an embryo-related disease (e.g., an embryo-based constructed genome). Some aspects include determining whether a disease-causing genetic variant from the ancestral genome has been transferred to an embryo. Some aspects include determining whether a haplotype (e.g., associated with a genetic variant that causes a disease) has been transferred to an embryo. Some aspects include determining the presence or absence of genetic variants that cause or increase susceptibility to a disease, including, but not limited to, single Nucleotide Variants (SNVs), small insertions/deletions, and Copy Number Variants (CNVs). Some aspects include determining the presence or absence of a disease-associated HLA type in an embryo. In some aspects, one or more diseases (e.g., a group of diseases) that may be ranked based on age of onset and severity of disease may be used to determine a phenotypic risk in the embryo. In some aspects, disease ranking may be combined with polygenic risk prediction, ranking embryos according to potential disease risk. Some aspects include determining that an embryo has 10%,20%,30%,40%,50%,60%,70%,80%,90%,95%,99%, or more disease risk. Some aspects include determining that the embryo has a disease risk of 90%,80%,70%,60%,50%,40%,30%,20%,10%,5%,1%, or less. Some aspects include selecting an embryo based on a risk of disease (e.g., selecting an embryo with a relatively low risk of disease) and/or based on the presence or absence of a particular gene variant (e.g., SNV, haplotype, insert/delete, and/or CNV). In some aspects, the disease risk associated with the embryo is determined using a polygenic risk score. In some aspects, a polygenic risk score (also referred to as 'PRS') is determined by summing the effects across sites in a disease model. In some aspects, the polygenic risk score is determined using population data. For example, population data may involve allele frequencies, individual genotypes, self-reported phenotypes, clinically reported phenotypes (e.g., ICD-10 codes), and/or family history (e.g., derived from related individuals in one or more population databases) information. Such population data may be obtained from any of a number of databases, including the UK (UK) biological library (which has about 300,000 pieces of information of unrelated individuals), various genotype-phenotype datasets as part of the genotype and phenotype databases (dbGaP) maintained by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), european genome-phenotype group archives, OMIM, GWASdb, pheGenl, genetic Association Database (GAD), and PhenomicDB. In some aspects, the disease risk is determined based on a multigenic risk score cutoff. For example, such a cut-off may include about 1% highest in a PRS distribution, about 2% highest in a PRS distribution, about 3% highest in a PRS distribution, about 4% highest in a PRS distribution, or 4% highest in a PRS distribution. Preferably, the entrapment is based on the highest 3% in the PRS distribution. The multigenic risk score cutoff may also be determined based on an absolute risk increase, for example, about 5%, about 10%, or about 15%. Preferably, the multigenic risk score cutoff is determined based on an absolute risk increase of 10%. Some aspects include using the predicted embryonic genome to estimate the risk of phenotype. In some aspects, risk estimation uses 1) a predicted genome of an embryo, 2) a genotype of a parent at a locus of interest (i.e., a variant included in the polygenic risk score) that is not predicted in the embryo, and 3) an allele frequency in a reference cohort (e.g., UKBB) at a locus of interest (e.g., a variant included in the polygenic risk score) that is not predicted in the embryo. Some aspects include determining risk based on the probability of transmission of one or more genetic variants (e.g., based on ancestral haplotypes). Some aspects include determining a combined risk associated with an embryo based on the risk of polygenic disease and the probability of transmission of one or more genetic variants (e.g., genetic variants that cause monogenic disease and/or transmission of haplotypes from the paternal genome and/or maternal genome to an embryo). One non-limiting exemplary system for predicting and reducing the risk of disease is shown in fig. 1. One non-limiting exemplary polygenic risk score workflow is shown in fig. 2. Donor selection Also provided are methods of selecting sperm and/or ovum donors. The estimate of the risk of a subject passing a disease to its offspring may be calculated by modeling the genome of the virtual child and calculating the risk of the disease for each child. Some aspects include determining a risk of disease for the intended mother and one or more potential sperm donors. Some aspects include determining a disease risk for an intended father and one or more potential ovum donors. Some aspects include simulating gametes from potential mother and father using phased parental genomes and simulated haplotype recombination sites (e.g., as determined using a HapMap database). Some aspects consider the respective recombination rates during meiosis when these gametes are produced. In some aspects, these simulated gametes combine with one another to create numerous combining possibilities to approximate the range of potential child genomes. Such a child genomic array may be converted into a disease probability array to predict the distribution of disease risk across each child. See fig. 3. Risk assessment as described herein (e.g., in the embryonic genome construction portion and/or the examples portion) may be used in the context of embryo selection during an IVF cycle and/or fertility planning in sperm donor selection. In some embodiments, the potential parent receives a report containing an individual risk estimate across multiple phenotypes of all available embryos or a series of risk values for each potential sperm donor. In some aspects, sperm donors are ranked based on disease risk for a condition or group of conditions. In some aspects, the donor is selected using the python script disclosed in U.S. provisional application No. 63/062,044, filed 8/6/2020. Some aspects include selecting an embryo based on the risk score. Some aspects include selecting an ovum donor based on the risk score. Some aspects include selecting a sperm donor based on the risk score. Implementation system The methods described herein may be implemented on a variety of systems. For example, in some aspects, a system (e.g., for genomic embryo construction, donor selection, risk determination, and/or performance of health reporting) includes one or more processors coupled with a memory. The methods may be implemented using code and data stored and executed on one or more electronic devices. Such electronic devices may store and communicate (internal and/or over a network) code and data with other electronic devices using computer readable media such as non-transitory computer readable storage media (e.g., magnetic disks, optical disks, random access memory, read-only memory, flash memory devices, phase change memory) and transitory computer readable transmission media (e.g., electrical, optical, acoustical or other form of propagated signals such as carrier waves, infrared signals, digital signals). The memory may be loaded with computer instructions to train the model (e.g., for identifying disease risk) as needed. In some aspects, the system is implemented on a computer, such as a personal computer, portable computer, workstation, computer terminal, network computer, supercomputer, massively parallel computing platform, television, mainframe, server farm, widely distributed loosely networked collection of computers, or any other data processing system or user device. The method may be implemented by processing logic comprising hardware (e.g., circuitry, dedicated logic, etc.), firmware, software (e.g., embodied on a non-transitory computer readable medium), or a combination of both. The described operations may be performed in any sequential order or in parallel. Generally, a processor is capable of receiving instructions and data from a read-only memory or a random access memory or both. A computer typically includes a processor capable of executing acts in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally, a computer will also include, or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to, or both, one or more mass storage devices for storing data, e.g., magnetic, magneto-optical disks, or solid-state drives. However, a computer need not have such devices. In addition, the computer may be embedded in other devices, such as a smart phone, a mobile audio or media player, a game console, a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver, or a portable storage device (such as a Universal Serial Bus (USB) flash drive), to name a few. Apparatus suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non-volatile memory, media and storage devices, including by way of example semiconductor memory devices, e.g., EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices, magnetic disks, e.g., internal hard disks or removable disks, magneto-optical disks, and CD-ROM and DVD-ROM optical disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry. A system of one or more computers may be configured to perform a particular operation or action by installing software, firmware, hardware, or a combination thereof on the system that, when in operation, causes the system to perform the action. One or more computer programs may be configured to perform particular operations or acts by including instructions that, when executed by a data processing apparatus, cause the apparatus to perform the acts. An exemplary implementation is set forth in fig. 21. Such systems may be used to implement one or more operations described herein. The computing device may be connected to other computing devices in a LAN, an intranet, an extranet, and/or the internet. The computing device may operate with the capabilities of a server machine in a client-server network environment or with the capabilities of a client in a peer-to-peer network environment. The following examples are provided to illustrate the invention, but it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the specific conditions or details of these examples. Examples Example 1 parental genome phase for parental recurrence Risk assessment and use of predicted embryo genomic sequences in disease prediction-In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) in embryo for Pre-implantation genetic testing Embryo coverage and accuracy were calculated using three different protocols. According to the first protocol, embryo genome prediction uses 1) grandparents' Whole Genome Sequences (WGS) on each side of the family, 2) phased WGS from each parent, 3) rare genotypes of the parents measured by the array, and 4) rare genotypes of the embryos (fig. 4). For a CEPH family well studied, this protocol achieved 99.8% predictive accuracy across 96.9% of the embryonic genome. Also contemplated is a protocol using 1) a single grandparent WGS, 2) a rare parental genotype measured by the array, and 3) a reference panel of haplotype resolution. ) According to a second approach, embryo predictions use 1) rare parental genotypes measured by the array and 2) a reference panel of haplotype resolution (e.g., 1000 genome). According to a third approach, embryo prediction uses only a reference panel of haplotype resolution (e.g., 1000 genome). The results from all three schemes are shown in table 1 below. PRS shows the results at about 140 ten thousand sites important in disease risk prediction. TABLE 1 embryo coverage and accuracy achieved with multiple split-phase strategies Example 2 estimation of phenotypic Risk Using predicted embryonic genome Probability of using the possible genotypes (AA, AB, BB) of a given parental genotype (M, D) at unpredictable sites in the embryo genome (see equation 1 below). In the case where parental genotypes are not available, the allele frequencies (AF EA) are affected using the cohort (equation 2). Equation 1. Beta. P (AA|M, D) +beta. P (AB|M, D) +beta. P (BB|M, D) Equation 2:2. Beta. AF EA Risk score percentile predicting embryos falling within 3% of the true scores of 27 (90%) of the 30 models. Another approach involves using 1) the predicted genome of the embryo, and 2) the allele frequencies in a reference cohort (e.g., UKBB) at sites of interest in the embryo that are not predicted (i.e., variants included in the polygenic risk score). Allele frequencies were used as described in equation 2 above. Using this approach, the risk score percentile of embryos falling within 23 (77%) of the 30 models is predicted. When included in the parental genotype, the 30 predicted scores all fall within 5% of the true score. Example 3 estimation and improvement of phenotypic Risk estimation Using a Multi-Gene Risk model Statistical framework The robust model for disease simulation and empirical analysis is a threshold liability model. The disease is considered to have a genetic component g-N (0, h 2) (where h 2 is a narrow genetic transmission) and an error component E-N (0, 1-h 2). The assumed responsibility/is given by: l=g+∈~N(0,1) referred to as potential liability, and assumes that the sample is at risk on a potential liability scale. Estimating the threshold T from the disease prevalence p such that This is calculated from the distribution of standard normal random variables. Without being bound by theory, it is believed that everyone affected by the disease has l > T. Simulated households involve simulated genetic responsibility, modeled as the sum of three components, two genetic components-the portion measured by PRS, only the 'unmeasured' portion of residual genetic risk, and unreducable non-genetic errors. The potential genetic risk g from above can be broken down into g=gR+gU Is defined as gU＝g-gR This last component is uncorrelated between family members. On the other hand, if the variance explained by PRS on the responsibility table is σ 2 and g R,i and g R,j are PRS components of the responsibilities of two first-order relatives, then the covariance is given by: If g U,i and g U,j are the remaining unmeasured components of responsibility of the two first-order relatives, and h 2 is the genetic power of the trait, then the covariance is given by: If g i is a child of g 1 and g 2, then For two primary relatives i and j with the following responsibilities, li＝gR,i+gU,i+∈i lj＝gR,j+gU,j+∈i We can see Because the error term is irrelevant. IVF embryo selection simulation IVF simulations were performed to answer the question of how much lower the likelihood of disease in one's lifetime for an embryo with the smallest multiple gene risk score given a set of n embryos and clinical phenotypes of interest than randomly selected embryos, in other words, what is the relative risk reduction of selection? To answer this question, we use a two-step procedure to generate parameters for the parent and then its children. This procedure or a modification thereof would be used in a simulation to test the effectiveness of donor selection and IVF embryo selection. Inputs were used in embryo selection model, σ 2, variance explained by polygenic risk score on responsibility scale, h 2, additive inheritance of trait on responsibility scale, p, lifetime popularity of trait. The output from such simulations is a reduced risk across different numbers of available embryos, which allows the intended couples performing IVF to find out which diseases can be meaningfully screened. Procedure(s) Step 1. For each parent, PRSg R with a distribution of N (0, σ 2) is generated if extracted from the general population or some other distribution, such as a variation in mean or truncated normal distribution, to represent an elevated risk from family history. The remaining unmeasured genetic risk g U, distributed as N (0, h 2-σ2) or otherwise above. And 2, step 2. N children were simulated by calculating l 1,…,ln: from parent two person calculation, parent mean PRS: average remaining genetic risk in calculation: For each child, an independent error ε i is calculated that is distributed as N (0, 1-h 2). For each child, a separate PRS reorganization is calculated For each child, calculate the independent unmeasured/remaining risk from recombination Calculating responsibility for child i by summing li＝MR+MU+RP,i+RU,i+∈i And 3, step 3. To determine risk reduction, millions of households were simulated over a range of n=3, 4. For each family, see if responsibility l min of the embryo with the smallest PRS exceeds a threshold t=Φ -1 (1-p), where Φ is the cumulative distribution function of the standard normal distribution. Statistical description As a complement, the forms of R P,i and R U,i can be proven to be correct. In order to show that the covariance between siblings and between children and parents is correct, note Since the latter two terms are 0. The same calculations apply to unmeasured genetic risk, i.e So that for g i＝gR,i+gU,i, A similar set of calculations shows that the parent-child covariance also satisfies the correct equation. Such a procedure can be schematically seen in fig. 5. An example of a risk reduction curve with inputs is shown in fig. 6. The variance explained by the polygenic risk score is shown in table 2 below, where 'h2_lee' is the variance. TABLE 2 variance of multiple disorders explained by polygenic risk scores Phenotype of phenotype h2_lee Prevalence rate of Disease type Genetic transmission AMD 0.017064 0.0655 Others 0.50 Breast cancer 0.026747 0.1240 Cancer of the human body 0.31 Prostate cancer 0.051717 0.1160 Cancer of the human body 0.58 CLL 0.045575 0.0057 Cancer of the human body 0.60 Psoriasis of the type 0.079081 0.0400 Autoimmune diseases 0.75 Rheumatoid arthritis 0.017422 0.0140 Autoimmune diseases 0.60 Celiac disease 0.246643 0.0100 Autoimmune diseases 0.80 Crohn's disease 0.021475 0.0050 Autoimmune diseases 0.80 Type 1 diabetes mellitus 0.098359 0.0050 Autoimmune diseases 0.72 Type 2 diabetes mellitus 0.022617 0.2570 Others 0.50 Atrial tremor 0.014569 0.2720 Others 0.67 Bipolar disorder 0.030115 0.0250 Psychosis of the type 0.55 Schizophrenia (schizophrenia) 0.035857 0.0050 Psychosis of the type 0.80 Vitiligo 0.062567 0.0200 Autoimmune diseases 0.50 Inflammatory bowel disease 0.022788 0.0200 Autoimmune diseases 0.50 Donor family with simulation To identify lower risk donors, the following work is performed (1) to calculate a polygenic risk score for the intended mother, (2) to calculate polygenic risk scores across N donors, and (3) to select the donor with the lowest polygenic risk score. The procedure is essentially the same as above, except that two steps are changed, first, multiple donors are simulated (n=10, 20,30,..100), and the polygenic risk score is minimized over the polygenic risk score of the donor, rather than the recombination. A flow chart of the method is shown in fig. 7. Inputs were used, σ 2, variance explained by PRS on the responsibility table, h 2, additive inheritance of the trait on the responsibility table, p, lifetime popularity of the trait. The output from this simulation is a reduced risk across the different numbers of available donors to be minimized thereon, which allows the customer using sperm or ovum donors to find out which diseases can be meaningfully screened. By way of the same example inputs as above, risk reduction curves were generated for different numbers of donors for some autoimmune disorders, which are shown in fig. 8. Additional embryo selection after donor selection Another application of donor selection involves first selecting a donor, followed by selecting an embryo with a lower risk of disease. More specifically, disease risk information is provided to a subject (e.g., female subject) interested in using donor sperm for a child. First, using her genetic test results and family history, multiple gametes were simulated and combined with simulated sperm samples to obtain the risk of a known genetic cause of heart disease. This is a refinement of the 'personalized risk' and 'baseline risk' for a child she is born with this condition. Second, using genetic information from individual donors and information about which variants are phased to each other, a series of disease probabilities are calculated assuming gametes from individual donors. Finally, it is assumed that the donor is selected and that a plurality of embryos (E1, E2, E3) fall within the disease risk profile. See fig. 9. These methods can be used in the context of family planning during sperm donor selection. Potential parents may indicate phenotypes of particular interest to them and may generate risk scores for those phenotypes for each donor. Those scores are used to predict the risk of disease for potential children of each sperm donor. Parents may be given a report containing these risk values, allowing them to choose the donor's option that would reduce the risk of the phenotype of interest. Family history Family history can be included to predict disease risk. In the uk biological repertoire, there are several disease states reported by parents and siblings, diabetes, heart disease, alzheimer's disease, parkinson's disease, breast cancer, and a few others. In addition, there are over 10,000 sibling pairs and a large number of half sibling or other secondary relatives pairs. A model is built with binary variables for family history, which means that (i) in a group of diseases in the British biological pool with self-reported family history, siblings or parents have disease, or (ii) for any other disease, all samples have first-degree relatives in the British biological pool. In view of this definition of the 'family history_has' dummy, for each condition on the appropriate queue, logistic regression was run using the following formula log (P/(1-P)) =β1×prs+β2×gender_male+β3×family history_has. In summary, the inputs include data from a biological library containing family history of self-reported disease, as well as first-order relatives pairs with medical records. The output includes a model from logistic regression that incorporates PRS and family history to improve the accuracy of our predictions. Models are used to prioritize which patients are at higher risk for developing disease during their lifetime. One exemplary output is listed in table 3 below, where β_1 (PRS), β_2 (gender dummy) and β_3 (family Shi Jiaren) are estimated for various conditions. TABLE 3 data from logistic regression model incorporating PRS When family history _ with a dummy was added to logistic regression, the predicted improvement was quantified by ROC curve for prostate cancer, as shown in fig. 10. Complexity of the model By incorporating secondary and tertiary relatives, more complex families, and/or related phenotypes, the model becomes more complex. The above shows how the immediate relatives are simulated. To allow for the inclusion of a secondary family history, two additional family members may also be simulated for each parent. If P 1 is parent one with relative R 1,i, we can generate a secondary family member by assuming: Where σ 2 is the potential liability scale variance component of PRS or unmeasured genetic risk g U. Another layer of complexity may also be added to the simulation, based on age and gender thresholds. If the prevalence of the disease varies depending on these variables, the threshold may be adjusted, and a determination may be made as to whether a sample in a household has the disease based on the threshold. For example, assume that for type 2 diabetes, the prevalence in men over 80 years old is 20% and in women over 55 years old is 4%. By replacing the empirical life-long risk of the disease in the above model, the life-long prevalence can be replaced with the life-long risk. The thresholds for such samples would be 1- Φ (0.20) and 1- Φ (0.04), respectively, where Φ is the cumulative distribution function of the standard normal random variable. When a person applies conditions to a family tree, they apply conditions to a group of samples si＝gR,i+gU,i+∈i＞Ti Exceeding their age and sex-specific threshold T i. Given family tree Ped with information about disease history, such as father and grandfather with disease, three siblings without disease, can be calculated E(gU|ped) The goal is to verify the theoretical predictions for quantity: P(gR+gU+∈＞T|gU=x) Which allows the calculation of the odds ratio. HLA phenotype Risk determination may involve phenotypes with strong HLA components and associated HLA alleles that are not well tagged by SNV. However, this method can be applied to any condition where there are known diseases associated with HLA alleles with significant effect sizes and involving other loci. Examples of complex phenotypes in which HLA is involved include, but are not limited to, psoriasis, multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, vitiligo, celiac disease, and systemic lupus erythematosus. These methods are applicable to a variety of situations including, but not limited to, individual disease risk prediction, risk reduction in both embryo selection and sperm donor selection scenarios, and prescription guidelines for certain drugs where multiple genetic factors (including HLA type) affect the likelihood of response or adverse drug response. HLA typing results are obtained from DNA-based methods such as Sanger sequencing-based typing or derived from Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS). First, a multiple gene risk score is determined, for example using a genome-wide association study (GWAS) effect size. One example is to add the product of the effect size and the effect allele dose to all relevant variants that are not in the MHC region. Second, one of the following methods is used to combine or pool relevant HLA alleles based on HLA typing results (not tag SNPs). PRS and HLA OR are combined to calculate the polygenic risk scores for all individuals in the validation cohort to obtain metadata (e.g., mean, standard deviation, etc.). An Odds Ratio (OR) of HLA alleles with a determined association with a phenotype of interest is obtained. The OR derived from PRS of individuals compared to validation cohorts and HLA typing was combined as follows: OR=ORHLA*ORPRS*OR inlet statistics the Risk Ratio (RR) was calculated using the above derived OR and the prevalence of the disease in the validation cohort. It is then used to estimate the lifetime risk of the disease. Direct incorporation of HLA into PRS HLA effector alleles are directly incorporated into the polygenic risk scores by adding the product of the effector size and the dose of each effector allele to the basal PRS. This will be referred to as PRS HLA+. PRS HLA+ are calculated for all individuals in the validation queue and metadata (e.g., mean, standard deviation, etc.) is obtained. RR was calculated using OR derived from the PRS HLA+ model and verifying disease prevalence in the cohort. It is then used to estimate the lifetime risk of the disease. Example 4A method of ranking disease Risk profiles for embryo and sperm donor selection Provided are exemplary methods of ranking disease risk profiles, such as illustrated in fig. 11. First, a weight w d, i.e. the sum of the weights of the seizure age w a and the disease severity w s, is calculated for each disease in a group d of diseases. W a for birth onset disease (e.g., celiac disease) is greater than w a for disease that generally does not occur until adulthood (like coronary artery disease). Similarly, w s for more severe diseases (like breast cancer) is larger than w s for diseases with milder phenotypes (like vitiligo). Next, the family history and the polygenic risk scores are combined to generate a predicted risk for each condition of interest for each embryo. Finally, a single score is generated for each embryo S T using the following equation to combine disease rank and risk prediction, where RR is the relative risk derived from the combination of the polygenic risk score and family history of a given disease: Assume that w s for onset at adulthood, childhood, or birth is 0.5,1, or 2, respectively. Similarly, assuming a mild, moderate or severe disease phenotype with w a of 0.5,1, or 2, respectively, it is possible to select intermediate values for diseases with variable phenotypes. Table 4 below lists the weights for a small set of conditions based on these values: TABLE 4 weights for various conditions Disease of the human body Age of onset wa Severity of disease ws wd Breast cancer Adult human 0.5 Moderate-severe 1.5 2 Celiac disease Birth of a birth 2 Moderate degree 1 3 Psoriasis of the type Childhood 1 Mild-moderate 0.75 1.75 Assuming that three embryos have the following RRs for each of the above conditions, the overall score for each embryo is calculated and ranked accordingly. For embryo 1, the score was calculated as follows: ST=(2*2.4)+(3*1.4)+(1.75*2.7)=24.85 The disease risk for each of the three embryos is listed in table 5. TABLE 5 disease risk profile for three embryos Disease of the human body RR embryo 1 RR embryo 2 RR embryo 3 Breast cancer 2.4 1.1 0.7 Celiac disease 1.4 1.6 1.4 Psoriasis of the type 2.7 7.3 2.7 ST 13.7 19.8 10.3 Ranking 2 3 1 The same protocol was applied to sperm donor selection, where each donor received a ranking across all diseases of interest. Scores are calculated for a subset of diseases (e.g., conditions where parents are expected to have family history) or across all diseases implementing a polygenic model, in both embryo and donor selection contexts. Alternatively, the method may be used without summing all the conditions of interest to prioritize the results of a single embryo/individual. Each condition receives a score and the condition with the highest score is prioritized. Using embryo 1 above as an example, the scores and ranks listed in table 6 were generated. TABLE 6 embryo score and ranking Disease of the human body RR embryo 1 Disease score (RR. W d) Disease ranking Breast cancer 2.4 4.8 1 Celiac disease 1.4 4.2 3 Psoriasis of the type 2.7 4.7 2 Example 5 prediction of transfer of disease susceptibility variants to embryos One copy of colorectal cancer susceptibility variants (APC c.3920t > a) (and/or insert, delete, and/or copy number variants) were found in the parent's WGS. This allele is not present in the mother. Such variants are not directly measured in rare genotyping of embryos. The parent's whole chromosome haplotype is obtained by any of the single or combined methods described above. Reconstruction of the embryo genome determines that haplotype blocks containing the at-risk allele are transferred from the father to one of the embryos. Risk alleles are annotated as 'present' in an embryo. Example 6 Multi-Gene Risk for common diseases Using embryo prediction Breast cancer has a common genetic component. Genetic risk score 69 variants were used to assess the risk of breast cancer. Of these variants, only 13% (9/69) was genotyped directly in the embryo. The percentile of embryo genetic risk scores based on these variants was 84.6%. After embryo reconstruction, the genotype of 98.6% (68/69) embryos has been interpolated/inferred, with a new embryo genetic risk score percentile of 77.7%. After birth, the DNA of the child was genotyped and PRS percentile was 76.2%. This suggests that genetic risk scores from whole genome embryo reconstructions have greater accuracy and less uncertainty due to the information of the additional variants. Example 7 prediction of transfer of disease-associated HLA class to embryo The mother suffers from Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). HLA typing results (from WGS, pcr+sanger sequencing or any other suitable method) revealed that she carried one copy of the HLA-DRB1 x 01:02 allele associated with an increased risk of this condition. Father is homozygous for HLA-DRB1 x 04:02 (alleles not known to be associated with increased risk of RA). Based on the complete split of chromosome 6 in each parent and the reconstruction of the embryo genome, transfer of maternal haplotype 2 (HM 2) and paternal haplotype 2 (HF 2) to the embryo was determined. The RA risk allele is carried on maternal haplotype 1 (HM 1), thus predicting that the embryo does not carry the risk allele. See, for example, fig. 12. Example 8 providing family with disease Risk Spectrum in their children Two parents indicate to the doctor that they are interested in the risk of various genetic diseases for their future children. The methods described above were used to predict disease risk ranges for children based on the average and recombination in genome specific calculations of two parents, thereby providing guidance for future IVF treatments. See fig. 9. Similarly, in the case of sperm donation, the multigenic risk score distribution based on maternal and potential sperm donor WGS can be simulated by recombination (see fig. 9). Example 9 inclusion of family history (FHx) to improve Risk valuation The risk of developing psoriasis is estimated to be 10-30% based on the family history of the disease. The use of the polygenic model alone in embryos with psoriasis in one parent shows only minor risk differences across the embryo. The inclusion of family history provided much better separation between embryo 1 and embryos 2 and 3, obviously embryos 2 and 3 had other risk factors besides FHx, as shown in table 7. TABLE 7 embryo Risk score incorporating family history Similarly, family history can be included to improve risk estimates for predicting disease-related HLA type transmission. Example 10 incorporation of HLA typing into psoriasis disease Risk assessment The presence or absence of both HLA types associated with the risk of developing psoriasis has a significant impact on overall disease risk across embryos. This embodiment can be extended to the context of sperm donor selection or personal genome reporting, as shown in table 8. TABLE 8 lifelong risk of psoriasis in multiple embryos HLA-C*06:02 HLA-C*12:03 ORprs RR Life-long risk Embryo 1 Deletion of 1 Copy 0.67 0.83 3.3% Embryo 2 1 Copy 1 Copy 0.75 2.91 11.6% Embryo 3 1 Copy Deletion of 0.88 2.49 10.0% Family history may be included to further improve risk estimates in predicting disease-associated HLA type transmission. This technique can be extended to predict blood type from embryonic genomes, including Rh status of the resulting fetus. Example 11 improvement of trait prediction accuracy When the genotype of a variant in a polygenic model is unknown in the embryo, the parental genotype may be used to improve trait prediction accuracy. The possible genotype probability given the parental genotype at that site is used instead of the population Allele Frequency (AF) or interpolated genotype. Using the probabilities in table 9 below, the dose for each possible genotype was added to the risk score. In practice, this improves the prediction accuracy measured by the prediction percentile of polygenic risk, as shown in table 10 below, which shows the improvement of the prediction of polygenic models of crohn's disease, where 4 variants are not predicted in the embryo. The true multigenic risk score percentile ('true value') is determined using direct genotyping from WGS. TABLE 9 embryo genotype probability based on parental genotypes Mother's mother Father and father P(AA|M,D) P(AT|M,D) P(TT|M,D) AT TT 0 0.25 0.75 TABLE 10 percentile of polygenic risk scores True value Group AF Dosage of 73.9% 62.5% 71.2% EXAMPLE 12 risk of haplotype disease Some disease risks are based on phased haplotypes rather than individual variants. Embryo reconstruction generates phased haplotypes for more accurate prediction of trait risk. Table 11 below lists haplotypes in the gene APOE and the associated risk for Alzheimer's disease (Corder et al, 1994). TABLE 11 haplotypes in APOE and risks associated with Alzheimer's disease Haplotype type Rs429358 allele Rs7412 allele Risk of Alzheimer's disease ε2 T T Protection of ε3 T C Neutral ε4 C C Risk of The two variants are 138bp apart in the APOE gene. Neither rs429358 nor rs7412 are measured in rare measurements in embryos. This precludes estimating the risk of Alzheimer's disease in the embryo. However, embryo reconstruction methods use the genotype of the parent to predict the complete phasing of the embryo genome, which can be used to infer that the embryo is ε 3/ε 3. This result was later verified by whole genome sequencing of the birth children. TABLE 12 risk of Alzheimer's disease in reconstituted embryo APOE haplotypes Risk of Alzheimer's disease Mother's mother ε3/ε3 Neutral Father and father ε3/ε3 Neutral Rebuilding embryos ε3/ε3 Neutral Embryo without reconstitution Is not available Is not available Embryo reconstruction is thus able to achieve APOE haplotypes and prediction of risk of alzheimer's disease, as well as disease states based on haplotypes in general. Example 13 rare genotype scaffolds Scaffolds using rare genotypes as the whole genome phase (see e.g. fig. 13) improved performance compared to the reference panel alone, as measured by Switching Error Rate (SER). Applying this technique to a well studied sample NA12878 we see that the overall SER decreases from 0.6% when using 1000genome reference panel alone to 0.54% when using a set of about 140k high confidence phasing genotypes as the scaffold in combination with the reference panel. This difference is due in large part to the reduction of long switching errors. For example, on chromosome 1, there is a >60% decrease in the original number of long switch errors (169 versus 60). In summary, the combined approach (rack + reference panel) resulted in a long switching error rate decrease from 0.12% to 0.04%. This is important in embryo reconstruction because long switching errors can lead to blocks with incorrect predicted delivery. Example 14 Multi-Gene Risk scoring Large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified genetic variants associated with a wide variety of diseases. These associations pave the way for functional studies of disease biology, drug target discovery and improved disease risk prediction. While individual common genetic variants may have little predictive value, combining these variants into a genetic risk score can account for a greater proportion of the genetic risk of a disease. These multi-locus genetic risk scores, also known as multi-gene risk scores (PRSs), are most commonly calculated as a weighted sum of disease-related genotypes. Where PRS ind is a polygenic risk score for a given individual and a disease with n related variants, w i is the weight of the i-th variant, typically taken from the GWAS effect size, and G i is the genotype of the individual for the risk allele of the i-th variant. PRSs have recently been investigated for their potential for predicting the risk of a variety of diseases, including cardiovascular disease, breast cancer and type 2 diabetes. These approaches demonstrate the ability to stratify individuals according to their risk for these diseases. Described is a method of validating and executing a polygenic model and visualizing risk estimates in consumer reports. Selection of a polygenic Risk model The previously published polygenic models for each condition of interest, which have been tested on at least 1000 individuals from a broad population, are prioritized. This precludes small studies with limited statistical efficacy and studies tested on isolated populations, which may not translate to other populations. Models using data from individuals in UKBB study sets were also excluded. Models were selected with an area under the reporting curve (AUC) greater than 0.65 and/OR with an individual dominance ratio (OR) in the top fraction to the bottom fraction greater than 2 (more information see below). A series of traits and published models and their evaluation statistics are shown in table 13. TABLE 13 published disease model When the published model is not available, a score is constructed using SNPs from the GWAS catalog that meet the genome-wide significance p-value threshold (p <5 e-8) as previously described (PMID: 30309464). Defining each phenotype in the British biological library Each model was validated and normalized using data from the uk bio-library queue. This resource includes genetic and disease information for 500,000 individuals. The following analysis uses only unrelated individuals. As shown in table 14, the ICD-9 and ICD-10 codes used to define each phenotype of interest were used, with combinations of disease and protocol codes being self-reported. TABLE 14 UKBB phenotype definition for each trait evaluated A subset of diseases is shown in table 15 below. TABLE 15 frequencies of subsets of diseases in British biological library Disease of the human body Frequency of Disease of the human body Frequency of Celiac disease 0.62% Atrial tremor 4.29% Coronary artery disease 6.64% Breast cancer 3.66% Individuals were stratified according to their polygenic risk score (PGS) and the prevalence of disease in this population was investigated. Evaluating a model using UKBB datasets The polygenic risk score is calculated as a weighted sum of disease-related genotypes. A score is calculated UKBB for each individual and various metrics are used to evaluate the performance of the model. PRS distribution across cases and controls The dataset was broken down into cases and controls for each trait and separated into cases and controls to generate a distribution of scores. Visual inspection of these distributions gives a rough understanding of how well each model can distinguish cases from controls. For example, figure 14 shows the distribution of PRS for rheumatoid arthritis cases and controls (mean scale to 0, standard deviation of 1). Receiver Operating Curve (ROC) ROC and area under the curve (AUC) were calculated by plotting the sensitivity and specificity of the model at different risk thresholds. Ten bits layered into PRS Individuals in the uk biological library were stratified into groups with different risk profiles for disease. The highest risk (top ten digits of PRS) individuals were compared to those at median risk (those with PRS in the middle 40-60 percentile of the distribution). Disease prevalence was plotted across tenths for each disease, and the ratio of high risk to risk was calculated across the disease. Figure 15 shows rheumatoid arthritis in terms of ten-digit OR. Regression analysis incorporating age and gender After PRS calculation across all unrelated individuals in the uk bio-library dataset, logistic regression was applied to each model. Beta PGS is the regression coefficient of the PRS, corresponding to the odds ratio when the PRS is normalized to the mean 0 and standard deviation 1. Age and gender were included where available and applicable. Lor|gs=β 0+βPRSPRS+β Age of mean (age) The odds ratio is then used to determine a threshold for high risk and intermediate outcome for reporting purposes. According to the OR/SD of disease (concentrated mean value of the z-transitions) According to the logical model presented above, the OR/SD of PRS is obtained by normalizing the PRS variables (mean 0, standard deviation 1), after which the effect size is calculated. This process helps achieve two goals. First, the risk stratification ability of PRSs can be compared directly across diseases. PRSs for different diseases vary in the number of SNPs and in their respective effect magnitudes, and therefore vary on very different scales. If not standardized, their corresponding effect magnitudes will not be directly comparable. By normalizing all PRSs, models can be ranked directly based on the model's OR/SD, resulting in a ranking that reflects their ability to divide the population based on disease risk. Second, it allows for statistically accurate application of UKBB effect estimates to the U.S. population. The effect size is estimated using UKBB and then converted to a dominance ratio. In estimating relative risk from these odds ratios (see below), the prevalence of group disease in the united states is used to accurately capture the relative risk of individuals with a given PRS in the united states. The normalization of UKBB PRS (using UKBB mean and standard deviation) allows the PRS of us individuals (after adjustment with us PRS mean and standard deviation) to be used in the model. Due to the random genetic classification, similar means and standard deviations of PRSs across populations can be expected, at least for individuals of european ancestry. The results from this analysis are shown in table 16. TABLE 16 model verification statistics PRS stratification of disease versus age After stratification of individuals into different risk groups, UKBB data are used to estimate the percentage of the population diagnosed with disease within these different groups. This information is visualized across different layers, including high risk (top 5% individuals per PRS) and average risk (across population) groups. Shown as a predicted percentage of individual diagnoses for a set of individuals with similar genetic risk to our given individual of interest, assuming that the individual of interest has PRS at the 75 th percentile. These figures help illustrate the utility of PRS in stratification of individuals based on disease risk. A clear distinction of the proportion of populations diagnosed within different PRS layers is seen to confirm the ability of the model to distinguish individuals based on their risk. Calculating an adjusted lifetime risk for an individual May begin with an average life-long risk of sex for americans. Next, risk markers in the genome are assessed and a polygenic score is calculated based on the markers. This information is converted to 'odds ratios' using data from UKBB described above. Finally, this odds ratio and average life risk are included using a formula to estimate the life risk of an individual with such variation: Lifetime risk after adjustment = c 0 x RR Where p 0 is the prevalence of the condition in UKBB, c 0 is the average lifetime risk of the condition in the united states, and OR is the odds ratio calculated above. The result is an estimate of the individual's own lifetime risk compared to the population average. For some conditions, an average lifetime risk is not available. In these cases, it is indicated whether the genetics analyzed indicate an elevated risk. Defining a threshold for 'high risk In some cases, the threshold for high genetic risk is set based on known risk factors. For example, individuals with first-degree relatives are at a relative risk of developing type 1 diabetes mellitus of 6.6. Thus, the high risk threshold for PRS for type 1 diabetes is set to correspond to this relative risk. For phenotypes where this is unavailable or where the model is unable to achieve a threshold, we assign individuals with a 2-fold increase in relative risk or a 10% increase in absolute risk as high risk. Evaluation metrics of the subset of phenotypes informing of high risk thresholds at lifestyle or clinical factors are shown in table 17. TABLE 17 evaluation of models in independent UKBB individual subsets Example 15 Multi-factor Condition (Multi-Gene Risk score) Genomic DNA obtained from submitted samples was sequenced using Illumina or BGI techniques. Alignment reads and reference sequence (hg 19) and sequence changes were identified. For some genes, only specific changes were analyzed. Deletion and duplication are not checked unless otherwise indicated above. In some cases, independent verification of HLA type may have been performed by an external laboratory. Selected variants were annotated and interpreted according to ACMG (american society of medical genetics) guidelines. Only pathogenic or possibly pathogenic variants are reported. Embryo and parental genotyping and subsequent 'parental support' analysis were performed. The genome reconstruction algorithm is used to reconstruct the embryo genome using the embryo genotype and parental whole genome sequences. Only variants that are predicted to have an effect on the embryo that are observed in the parental genome are examined in the reconstructed embryo genome. For a subset of conditions, a polygenic risk score is calculated. Models of each condition were evaluated on the uk bio-pool population. Some polygenic risk scores may be refined using HLA types. The life-long risk of an individual is calculated by adjusting the baseline risk (in the united states population) based on its demographic information and the polygenic risk score. Included in the report are models that lead to a 10% lifetime risk difference or a 1.9-fold increase in lifetime risk from the first ten digits to the last ten digits. Available evidence based on model and genome reconstruction performance is left in the experimental part by investigators at the discretion of certain conditions (e.g., bipolar disease). The life-long risk for various conditions for a particular embryo is set forth in figures 16A-C. Using psoriasis as a specific example, figures 17A-B show risk scores associated with susceptibility to psoriasis in three exemplary embryos. Example 16 embryo Whole genome prediction Using haplotype resolved genomic sequences Haplotype resolved genomic sequencing is combined with a set of rare genotypes from single or few cell embryo biopsies of embryos to predict the full genomic sequence of an embryo. Specifically, stLFR techniques were used for genomic sequencing for paternal haplotype analysis. Performance was assessed at rare heterozygous positions (defined as allele frequencies of 1% or less). The inheritance of 230,117 sites was predicted in the embryo with 89.5% accuracy. The materials used in this study were retrospectively obtained from participants who had a preimplantation genetic diagnosis who had previously undergone a round of successful IVF (table 16). Trophectoderm biopsies of a total of 10 embryos (day 5) were genotyped for each biopsy across a set of 300,000 common SNPs using a 24 hour-accelerated microarray protocol. In addition, each parent and all four grandparents were genotyped across the same panel. TABLE 16 tissue samples used as proof of concept Genomic DNA is extracted from whole blood or saliva samples. Neonatal and maternal DNA was processed on a BGI platform using 30X WGS. Father samples were processed using stLFR. DNA extraction, amplification and genotyping with parents and grandparents were performed on trophectoderm biopsies from one of the 10 day 5 embryos using a rapid microarray protocol using Illumina CytoSNP-12 chips across all samples. The sibling embryo and parental SNP array measurements were combined using the 'parental support' (PS) method (fig. 18, 19), as detailed in Kumar et al, 2015. The full genomic sequence of the embryo was predicted by combining PS embryo genotypes with parental haplotype blocks (see figure 18). EXAMPLE 17 construction of full chromosome haplotypes from haplotype blocks and parental information To construct a chromosome length haplotype in an IVF setup, haplotype resolved genomic sequencing of parental two is combined with information from rare genotypes of sibling embryos. As part of the 'parental support' (PS) method, a Maximum Likelihood Estimate (MLE) of heterozygous SNV in each parent is created by combining recombination frequencies from the HapMap database with SNP array measurements from parents and SNP array measurements from sibling embryos. Such rare, chromosome length haplotypes are not sufficient to predict the genome of an embryo, but can be combined with dense haplotypes obtained from molecules from parental samples (e.g., using long fragment read techniques, 10x genomics, cpt-seq, pacific Biosciences, hi-C) to predict the genetic genomic sequence. This information is obtained using several data streams. To generate dense haplotype blocks, shotgun sequencing was first performed on the mother and father with 34-fold and 30-fold median fold coverage, respectively. Next, 94.2% of 194 ten thousand heterozygous SNVs in the mother and 92.4% of 189 ten thousand heterozygous SNVs in the father were directly phased into long haplotype blocks by sequencing a haploid subset of genomic DNA obtained via in vitro dilution pool amplification. The 'dense haplotype blocks' obtained from these molecules were combined with rare, but chromosome length haplotypes to construct a parental chromosome length haplotype resolved genomic sequence. This sequence information is then used to predict the genomic sequence of the embryo, but can also be used to predict potential offspring of two parents (e.g., by modeling potential ova and sperm that will produce future children). Potential workflow for whole genome prediction of embryos is shown in figure 19. At the initial visit, the patient gives blood, which is used to generate the complete genomic sequence of each parent and to predict the possible condition that the couple is at risk for. After consultation, parents underwent IVF and embryos were genotyped using conventional IVF PGD techniques, and this information was combined with the parent's whole genome sequence information (haplotype resolved) to predict the embryo's genetic genome and assess disease risk. Chromosome length parental haplotypes were constructed using sibling embryos and parental genotypes. The parents' phases are determined using statistical methods (e.g., maximum likelihood estimates) from noise information obtained from each sibling embryo and meiotic recombination frequency database. Full chromosome haplotype construction Whole chromosome haplotypes are constructed by genomic sequencing of the relatives of an individual, including but not limited to parents, grandparents or children. If an individual has two or more children with the same individual, the whole chromosome of the individual may be obtained by performing whole genome sequencing on the individual, its partners and the two or more children and determining the genetic locus of each child (FIG. 20). This would provide whole chromosome based haplotype information without modifying the DNA sequencing process. This can be important, for example, where a couple has two children and one more is desired, and is performed without any grandparent DNA sample. Chromosome haplotypes from individual sperm The method of example 17 was performed using whole chromosome haplotypes obtained by sequencing DNA obtained from individual sperm. Example 18 use of embryo genome prediction to calculate a Multi-Gene Risk score for genetic Complex disease Genome-wide association studies can build a polygenic risk score model for conditions such as type 1 diabetes, schizophrenia, crohn's disease, celiac disease, alzheimer's disease, and the like. These approaches involve obtaining a list of genome-wide important SNPs with observed odds ratios of disease-related SNPs and calculating a 'risk score' for each individual from a series of SNPs seen in the individual. The multigenic risk score for siblings was calculated using this approach to simulate the multigenic risk score seen when sibling embryos were compared in the IVF cycle. Using genomic sequences from a publicly available family, there are 12 siblings, two parents and four grandparents. Each genomic variant file (VCF file) was converted to a PLINK file and the PLINK-score command was used on the variant table to calculate a polygenic risk score for each individual in the family. The multigenic risk score for each sibling and parent two is calculated. The polygenic risk scores were also calculated for each individual (about 2500 individuals) in the 1000genome cohort and for a subset of caucasian individuals (about 200-300 individuals). The polygenic risk scores for each family member are compared to the polygenic risk scores for a population matched (European) group of individuals to determine whether the individual is at high risk or low risk. Multigenic risk scores for celiac disease have been established in caucasian populations incorporating multiple SNPs (Abraham et al 2014;PMC PMC3923679). The model has higher sensitivity to celiac disease, and can calculate the negative predictive value of the method at a certain PRS threshold value. Assuming a family history of celiac disease, we estimated a negative predictive value of 99.4% for a particular PRS (less than-1). After calculating the PRS for each individual, two individuals have PRSs that are less than this threshold. In the IVF context, we estimated that these two embryos could be selected for implantation with approximately a 10-fold reduction in disease risk. A polygenic risk score for alzheimer's disease has been previously established and found to correlate with early onset of alzheimer's disease (DESIKAN ET al.,2017; pmc5360219; table 2). The parent PRS is shown in dark blue dashed lines. Each embryo PRS is shown in grey dashed lines. After calculation of PRS for each individual, the individuals with the lowest polygenic risk scores were predicted to have a reduced risk of alzheimer's disease (median age of onset 87 years, rather than 80 years) compared to the embryos with highest polygenic risk scores. TABLE 17 Single nucleotide polymorphisms used to construct the multiple gene risk scores for Alzheimer's disease Example 19 correlation calculation The embryo genotype is used to calculate the index of association of individuals with undesirable genetic traits. For example, consider a maternal grandparent with schizophrenia. Step 1 after the genome of the embryos from examples 1 and 2 is deduced, the correlation between the genome of each embryo and the affected individual is calculated. Step 2, selecting the embryo with the lowest correlation with the affected individual. Example 20 prediction of disease Risk Using calculated genetic correlation via IBD (Identity by Descent, identity by blood component) An extension of example 3, wherein IBD is used instead of genetic association of affected individuals in disease prediction. Since various sibling embryos will have IBD that is different from the relatives of the affected family, this information can be used in addition to PRS scores to further refine the probability of disease risk for the embryo. The following examples assume that the risk of disease spreads evenly throughout the genome of the affected individual, and thus the risk is linear with respect to the degree of IBD in the affected individual. Log (P/(1-P))=β_1×prs +beta_2 sex Male +. Family history _ with _4 ibd_ affected individuals. Example 21 region sharing genomic information The region sharing genetic information between two individuals is identified and embryos are selected that do not contain homozygous regions that increase the likelihood of mendelian conditions. In a blood-born couple or couple with a shared genetic background, the offspring may be homozygous for the area causing the disease. Since genes with known disease associations are heterogeneously transmitted throughout the genome, disease can be minimized by avoiding homozygous regions within the regions of the genome known to cause disease. And 1, determining a region sharing genetic information between two parents. And 2, calculating the score of the homozygous region in each embryo. Step 3, selecting the embryo with the lowest homozygous region in general or across the region known to cause the disease.

### Claims

Claims (15) 1. A method for determining a risk of a combined disease associated with an embryo, the method comprising: (a) Performing whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from a paternal subject to identify a genome associated with the paternal subject; (b) Performing whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from a maternal subject to identify a genome associated with the maternal subject; (c) Identifying a paternal haplotype for a genomic component associated with a paternal subject; (d) Identifying a maternal haplotype for a genomic component associated with a maternal subject; (e) Performing rare genotyping on the embryo to identify one or more genetic variants in the embryo; (f) Constructing a genome of the embryo based on (i) one or more genetic variants in the embryo, (ii) a paternal haplotype, (iii) a maternal haplotype, (iv) a transmission probability of the paternal haplotype, and (v) a transmission probability of the maternal haplotype; (g) Assigning a polygenic risk score to the embryo based on the constructed genome of the embryo, wherein the polygenic risk score is determined by summing effects across a plurality of sites in the disease model; (h) Determining transfer of genetic variants and/or paternal haplotypes and/or maternal haplotypes causing monogenic disease to an embryo, and (I) Determining a combined disease risk associated with the embryo based on (g) the polygenic risk score and (h) the transfer of genetic variants and/or paternal haplotypes and/or maternal haplotypes that cause the monogenic disease to the embryo. 2. A method for outputting a combined disease risk associated with an embryo, the method comprising: (a) Receiving a first dataset comprising paternal genomic data and maternal genomic data; (b) Aligning the sequence reads with a reference genome and determining a genotype across the genome using the paternal genome data and the maternal genome data; (c) Receiving a second data set comprising father and mother rare genomic data; (d) Separating the male and female genome data from the male and female rare genome data to identify male and female haplotypes; (e) Receiving a third dataset comprising rare genomic data of an embryo, a paternal transfer probability, and a maternal transfer probability; (f) Applying an embryo reconstruction algorithm to (i) the paternal and maternal haplotypes, (ii) rare genomic data of the embryo, and (iii) the probability of transfer of each of the paternal and maternal haplotypes to determine a constructed genome of the embryo; (g) Applying a polygenic model to the constructed genome of the embryo to assign polygenic risk scores; (h) Determining the transfer of genetic variants and/or haplotypes from the father and/or mother to the embryo that cause the disease, and (I) Outputting a combined embryo-related disease risk based on (g) the polygenic risk score and (h) the transfer of genetic variants and/or paternal haplotypes and/or maternal haplotypes that cause the monogenic disease to the embryo. 3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the method further comprises determining a paternal haplotype and/or a maternal haplotype using the grandfather genomic data and/or the grandmother genomic data. 4. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the method further uses population genotype data and/or population phenotype data to determine a disease risk of the embryo. 5. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the method further uses the family history of the disease to predict disease risk. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein whole genome sequencing is performed using a standard protocol, a PCR-free protocol, a ligation read protocol, or a long read protocol. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the ligation read scheme is a synthetic long read scheme. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein rare genotyping is performed using microarray technology, next generation sequencing of embryo biopsies, or cell culture medium sequencing. 9. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein phase separation is performed using a population-based and/or a molecule-based method. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the molecule-based method is a ligation read. 11. The method of claim 4, wherein the population genotype data comprises allele frequencies and individual genotypes of at least 300000 unrelated individuals in the british biological library. 12. The method of claim 4, wherein the population phenotype data comprises both self-reported phenotypes and clinically reported phenotypes of at least 300000 unrelated individuals in the uk biological library. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the clinical report phenotype is an ICD-10 code. 14. The method of claim 4, wherein the population genotype data comprises population family history data comprising self-reporting data of at least 300000 unrelated individuals in the british biological library and information derived from relatives of said unrelated individuals in the british biological library. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the risk of disease is further determined by a score of genetic information shared by the affected individuals.
