## Patent Reference

- Title: Gene therapy system and related methods for treating hearing loss
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN116096391A/en

### Abstract

Abstract Translated from Chinese 本公开描述可用于治疗和/或预防由TMPRSS3基因或LOXHD1基因的基因突变引起的耳聋的基因疗法系统和相关方法。本文所公开的组合物和方法使用腺相关病毒(AAV)载体将TRMPSS3或LOXHD1基因递送至内耳中以分别恢复所述TMPRSS3基因或所述LOXHD1基因的活性，促进毛细胞存活并且恢复罹患听力损失的患者的听力。如本文所公开，所述系统和方法可以使用针对由基因突变引起的听力损失的基因疗法(例如，分子治疗剂)与植入耳蜗植入物的组合。 The present disclosure describes gene therapy systems and related methods that can be used to treat and/or prevent deafness caused by genetic mutations in the TMPRSS3 gene or the LOXHD1 gene. The compositions and methods disclosed herein use an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector to deliver the TRMPSS3 or LOXHD1 gene into the inner ear to restore the activity of the TMPRSS3 gene or the LOXHD1 gene, respectively, promote hair cell survival and restore hearing loss patient's hearing. As disclosed herein, the systems and methods may use gene therapy (eg, molecular therapeutics) for hearing loss caused by genetic mutations in combination with implantation of cochlear implants.

### Description

Description Translated from Chinese 用于治疗听力损失的基因疗法系统和相关方法Gene therapy systems and related methods for treating hearing loss 序列表Sequence Listing 本申请含有序列表，所述序列表已经以ASCII格式以电子方式提交并且由此以引用的方式整体并入。2021年2月4日创建的所述ASCII副本被命名为104042_403_Seq_Listing.txt并且大小为18,277字节。This application contains a sequence listing, which has been submitted electronically in ASCII format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The ASCII copy created on February 4, 2021 is named 104042_403_Seq_Listing.txt and is 18,277 bytes in size. 技术领域Technical Field 本公开的多个实施方案总体上涉及可用于治疗和/或预防听力损失的基因疗法系统和方法。本文所述的示例性实施方案针对用于预防患者的听力损失的进一步下降的系统和相关方法。更具体说来，本公开中教导的实施方案涉及可用于治疗和/或预防由TMPRSS3基因或LOXHD1基因的基因突变引起的耳聋的基因疗法系统和相关方法。这些系统和方法可以使用针对由基因突变引起的听力损失的基因疗法(例如，分子治疗剂)连同耳蜗植入物的植入的组合。Various embodiments of the present disclosure are generally directed to gene therapy systems and methods that can be used to treat and/or prevent hearing loss. The exemplary embodiments described herein are directed to systems and related methods for preventing further decline in hearing loss in patients. More specifically, the embodiments taught in the present disclosure are directed to gene therapy systems and related methods that can be used to treat and/or prevent deafness caused by genetic mutations in the TMPRSS3 gene or the LOXHD1 gene. These systems and methods can use a combination of gene therapy (e.g., molecular therapeutic agents) for hearing loss caused by genetic mutations in conjunction with the implantation of a cochlear implant. 听力损失是人类最常见的感官缺陷。根据2018年世界卫生组织(WHO)公布的关于致残听力损失程度的估计，全世界有466百万人患有致残听力损失(432百万成人和34百万儿童)。患有致残听力损失的人的数目截至2030年将增长至630百万并且截至2050年将超过900百万(10人中有1人)。全世界超过90％的患有致残听力损失的人(420百万)居住在低收入区(WHO关于听力损失患病率的全球估计，Prevention of Deafness WHO 2018)。Hearing loss is the most common sensory impairment in humans. According to estimates of the extent of disabling hearing loss published by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2018, 466 million people worldwide suffer from disabling hearing loss (432 million adults and 34 million children). The number of people with disabling hearing loss will grow to 630 million by 2030 and will exceed 900 million (1 in 10 people) by 2050. More than 90% of people with disabling hearing loss worldwide (420 million) live in low-income areas (WHO global estimates of the prevalence of hearing loss, Prevention of Deafness WHO 2018). 目前尚无用于预防或治疗听力损失或耳聋的批准治疗剂。患有致残听力损失的那些人目前的治疗选择是耳蜗植入物。耳蜗植入是一种常见的程序，伴随较大的医疗成本，每名患者的寿命成本超过$1,000,000(Mohr PE等人(2000).The societal costs of severeto profound hearing loss in the United States；IntJ Technol Assess HealthCare；16(4):1120-35)。There are currently no approved therapeutic agents for the prevention or treatment of hearing loss or deafness. The current treatment option for those with disabling hearing loss is cochlear implants. Cochlear implants are a common procedure with significant medical costs, with lifetime costs exceeding $1,000,000 per patient (Mohr PE et al. (2000). The societal costs of severe to profound hearing loss in the United States; Int J Technol Assess HealthCare; 16(4): 1120-35). 目前耳蜗植入物的需求超出供应。所制造的耳蜗植入物单元的生产率是每年50,000个单元。基于目前的出生率和新生儿致残听力损失的发生率和患病率，每年需要134,000个耳蜗植入物来为每个受折磨的儿童提供1个耳蜗植入物。如果包括需要双侧(2个)耳蜗植入物的患者，那么这个数字会增加。The demand for cochlear implants currently exceeds supply. The production rate of cochlear implant units manufactured is 50,000 units per year. Based on current birth rates and the incidence and prevalence of disabling hearing loss in newborns, 134,000 cochlear implants are needed per year to provide 1 cochlear implant for every afflicted child. This number increases if patients requiring bilateral (2) cochlear implants are included. 耳蜗植入物的寿命成本对于大多数人来说是令人望而却步的，特别是对于生活在大多数患有致残听力损失的人所居住的发达国家以外的那些人来说。需要提供耳蜗植入物的具有成本效益的替代品的治疗选择，尤其是对于生活在发达国家以外的那些人来说。The lifetime costs of cochlear implants are prohibitive for most people, particularly for those living outside of developed countries where most people with disabling hearing loss reside. Treatment options that provide cost-effective alternatives to cochlear implants are needed, particularly for those living outside of developed countries. 超过50％的语前耳聋是遗传的，即遗传性的(Centers for Disease Control andPrevention-Genetics of Hearing Loss)。遗传性听力损失和耳聋可能是传导性的、感音神经性的或两者的组合；综合征性的(与外耳或其他器官的畸形或涉及其他器官系统的医疗问题有关)或非综合征性的(无外耳相关的可见异常或任何相关医疗问题)；和语前的(在语言发展之前)或语后的(在语言发展之后)(Richard JH Smith,MD,A Eliot Shearer,Michael S Hildebrand,PhD和Guy Van Camp,PhD,Deafness and Hereditary HearingLoss Overview,GeneReviews初始投稿：1999年2月14日；最后修订：2014年1月9日。超过70％的遗传性听力损失是非综合征性的。非综合征性耳聋的不同基因座被指定为DFN(针对耳聋)。基因座是基于遗传模式命名的：DFNA(常染色体显性)、DF B(常染色体隐性)和DFNX(X连锁)。上述名称后面的数字反映了基因定位和/或发现的顺序。在一般人群中，听力损失的患病率随年龄增长而增加。这种变化反映了遗传和环境的影响，以及环境诱因与个人的遗传倾向之间的相互作用。More than 50% of prelingual hearing loss is inherited, or hereditary (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention-Genetics of Hearing Loss). Hereditary hearing loss and deafness may be conductive, sensorineural, or a combination of both; syndromic (related to malformations of the external ear or other organs or to medical problems involving other organ systems) or nonsyndromic (without visible abnormalities related to the external ear or any associated medical problems); and prelingual (before language development) or postlingual (after language development) (Richard JH Smith, MD, A Eliot Shearer, Michael S Hildebrand, PhD, and Guy Van Camp, PhD, Deafness and Hereditary Hearing Loss Overview, GeneReviews Original submission: February 14, 1999; last revised: January 9, 2014. More than 70% of hereditary hearing loss is nonsyndromic. The different loci for nonsyndromic deafness are designated DFN (for deafness). The loci are named based on the inheritance pattern: DFNA (autosomal dominant), DF B (autosomal recessive) and DFNX (X-linked). The numbers following the above names reflect the order in which the genes were located and/or discovered. In the general population, the prevalence of hearing loss increases with age. This variation reflects both genetic and environmental influences, and the interaction between environmental triggers and an individual's genetic predisposition. 感音神经性听力损失(SNHL)是人类最常见的神经退行性疾病，目前尚无经批准的药物干预。SNHL可由遗传病症引起，以及通过诸如声音创伤和耳毒性等损伤获得。遗传诊断已经证明，至少有100个基因导致非综合征性SNHL。遗传学和基因疗法技术的最新进展已经示出，通过基因疗法有可能挽救许多隐性类型的耳聋(Akil等人,2012；Askew等人,2015)。已经使用腺相关病毒载体(AAV)实现了向内耳的长期基因递送(Shu,Tao,Wang等人,2016)。首个使用基因疗法来解决耳聋和听力损失的人类临床试验(CGF166)在2014年6月启动并且在2019年12月完成。CGF166的主要研究者是Hinrich Staecker博士并且所述试验由Novaris赞助。(https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02132130)。这一领域的转化研究的理想疾病目标是隐性遗传性听力损失，它影响内耳内的一组确定细胞并在出生后在言语发育后发生。突变的流行是一个额外的考虑因素。Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) is the most common neurodegenerative disease in humans, and there is currently no approved drug intervention. SNHL can be caused by genetic disorders, as well as acquired through damage such as sound trauma and ototoxicity. Genetic diagnosis has shown that at least 100 genes cause non-syndromic SNHL. Recent advances in genetics and gene therapy technology have shown that it is possible to save many recessive types of deafness through gene therapy (Akil et al., 2012; Askew et al., 2015). Long-term gene delivery to the inner ear has been achieved using adeno-associated viral vectors (AAV) (Shu, Tao, Wang et al., 2016). The first human clinical trial (CGF166) using gene therapy to address deafness and hearing loss was launched in June 2014 and completed in December 2019. The principal investigator of CGF166 is Dr. Hinrich Staecker and the trial is sponsored by Novaris. (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02132130). An ideal disease target for translational research in this area is recessive hereditary hearing loss, which affects a defined set of cells within the inner ear and develops postnatally after speech development. The prevalence of mutations is an additional consideration. 如本文所述，通过仔细评估听力损失的常见隐性原因的发生率并且考虑基因的大小，有可能开发出一种基因疗法计划，所述基因疗法计划具有一个容易接近并且相当常见的患者群体。例如，尽管TMPRSS3较其他突变不太常见，但它是听力损失的一个相当常见的原因，其严重程度足以保证耳蜗植入。另外，具有TMPRSS3突变的患者可能与具有其他突变的患者一样对耳蜗植入没有反应(Shearer等人,2017)。这提供了机会来靶向TMPRSS3或诸如LOXHD1等其他基因，作为独立治疗剂或与其他治疗剂和/或耳蜗植入组合以改进这一病症的植入效果。表1(由(Miyagawa,Nishio和Usami,2016)改编)证实TMPRSS3突变可能是语后隐性听力损失的最常见原因，其在耳蜗内的分布相当有限，并且由于基因的大小，可能被构建到现有的AAV载体中。As described herein, by carefully evaluating the incidence of common recessive causes of hearing loss and taking into account the size of the gene, it is possible to develop a gene therapy program that has an easily accessible and fairly common patient population. For example, although TMPRSS3 is less common than other mutations, it is a fairly common cause of hearing loss that is severe enough to warrant a cochlear implant. Additionally, patients with TMPRSS3 mutations may not respond to cochlear implants as patients with other mutations (Shearer et al., 2017). This provides the opportunity to target TMPRSS3 or other genes such as LOXHD1 as stand-alone therapeutics or in combination with other therapeutics and/or cochlear implants to improve implant outcomes for this condition. Table 1 (adapted from (Miyagawa, Nishio, and Usami, 2016)) demonstrates that TMPRSS3 mutations may be the most common cause of postlingual recessive hearing loss, have a fairly limited distribution within the cochlea, and due to the size of the gene, may be constructed into existing AAV vectors. 表1：176名成人耳蜗植入患者中不同突变的发生率。Table 1: The incidence of different mutations in 176 adult cochlear implant patients. 人跨膜蛋白酶丝氨酸3(TMPRSS3；还称作DFNB10、DFNB8、ECHOS1、TADG12；Acc:HGNC:11877)通过其与先天性(出生时存在)和童年发病常染色体隐性耳聋的相关性进行鉴定。TMPRSS3基因突变与DFNB8和10型常染色体隐性非综合征性听力损伤相关。TMPRSS3是编码丝氨酸蛋白酶的1646碱基对基因并且与DFNA 8/10相关，并且可能占经历耳蜗植入的听力损失患者的1-5％(Weegerink等人,2011)。这一基因的功能缺失似乎会导致广泛的听力表型，视突变位点而定。先天性和成年发病的进行性听力损失都与这一基因的缺失有关。Human transmembrane protease serine 3 (TMPRSS3; also known as DFNB10, DFNB8, ECHOS1, TADG12; Acc: HGNC: 11877) was identified by its association with congenital (present at birth) and childhood-onset autosomal recessive deafness. Mutations in the TMPRSS3 gene are associated with autosomal recessive non-syndromic hearing impairment, types DFNB8 and 10. TMPRSS3 is a 1646 base pair gene encoding a serine protease and is associated with DFNA 8/10 and may account for 1-5% of hearing loss patients who undergo cochlear implants (Weegerink et al., 2011). Loss of function of this gene appears to result in a wide range of hearing phenotypes, depending on the mutation site. Both congenital and adult-onset progressive hearing loss are associated with deletions in this gene. DFNB8听力损失的发病是语后的(10-12岁)，而DFNB10听力损失的发病是语前的(先天性)。这种表型差异反映了基因型差异。引起DFNB8的变体是一种剪接位点变体，表明低效剪接与减少的正常蛋白质的量有关，所述减少的正常蛋白质的量足以预防语前耳聋，但不足以预防最终的听力损失。(参见Richard JH Smith,MD等人(2014).Genes Known toCause Autosomal Recessive Nonsyndromic Hearing Impairment:Deafness andHereditary Hearing Loss Overview；GeneReviews)。The onset of DFNB8 hearing loss is postlingual (10-12 years old), while the onset of DFNB10 hearing loss is prelingual (congenital). This phenotypic difference reflects the genotypic difference. The variant that causes DFNB8 is a splice site variant, indicating that inefficient splicing is related to the amount of normal protein reduced, which is sufficient to prevent prelingual deafness, but not enough to prevent final hearing loss. (See Richard JH Smith, MD et al. (2014). Genes Known to Cause Autosomal Recessive Nonsyndromic Hearing Impairment: Deafness and Hereditary Hearing Loss Overview; Gene Reviews). 表2描述了染色体21上已知引起听力损失的TMPRSS3突变。Table 2 describes TMPRSS3 mutations on chromosome 21 that are known to cause hearing loss. 脂氧合酶同源结构域1基因(LOXHD1；还称作LH2D1、DFNB77、FLJ32670；OMIM:613072；Acc:HGNC:26521)编码完全由PLAT(多囊蛋白/脂氧合酶/α-毒素)结构域组成的高度保守的蛋白质，被认为参与将蛋白质靶向质膜。对小鼠的研究示出，这一基因在内耳中的机械感觉毛细胞中表达，并且这一基因的突变导致听觉缺陷，表明这一基因对正常毛细胞功能至关重要。对分离性耳聋的人类家族进行筛查，鉴定出这一基因的突变，所述突变引起DFNB77，这是一种常染色体隐性非综合征性听力损失(ARNSHL)的进行性形式。针对这一基因已经注意到编码不同同种型的替代剪接转录变体。The lipoxygenase homology domain 1 gene (LOXHD1; also known as LH2D1, DFNB77, FLJ32670; OMIM:613072; Acc:HGNC:26521) encodes a highly conserved protein composed entirely of PLAT (polycystin/lipoxygenase/alpha-toxin) domains, thought to be involved in targeting proteins to the plasma membrane. Studies in mice have shown that this gene is expressed in mechanosensory hair cells in the inner ear, and mutations in this gene result in hearing defects, suggesting that this gene is essential for normal hair cell function. Screening of human families with isolated deafness identified mutations in this gene that cause DFNB77, a progressive form of autosomal recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss (ARNSHL). Alternative splicing transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. LOXHD1的临床特征：Clinical features of LOXHD1: ·常染色体隐性；Autosomal recessive ·听力损失，感音神经性，双侧(在低频率时听力损失较轻)；Hearing loss, sensorineural, bilateral (less severe at low frequencies); ·在德系犹太人家族中，先天性发病导致7-10岁耳蜗植入；In an Ashkenazi Jewish family, congenital disease leads to cochlear implantation at age 7-10 years; ·在一个有血缘关系的伊朗家族中，7-8岁发病，在成年期逐渐发展为中度至重度中高频缺失。In a consanguineous Iranian family, onset at age 7-8 years progressed to moderate to severe mid- and high-frequency deletions in adulthood. 有证据表明，常染色体隐性非综合征性听力损失-77(DFNB77)是由染色体18q21上LOXHD1基因(613072)的纯合突变引起的。Evidence suggests that autosomal recessive nonsyndromic hearing loss-77 (DFNB77) is caused by a homozygous mutation in the LOXHD1 gene (613072) on chromosome 18q21. 在胚胎13.5天和16天，原位杂交检测到发育中的小鼠内耳中的Loxhd1表达，但在任何其他组织中均未检测到。在出生后第4天，在耳蜗和前庭毛细胞中检测到表达，其中细胞核中的浓度最高。Loxhd1逐渐定位于细胞质，并且在成体中，Loxhd1沿静纤毛长度在毛细胞中表达。In situ hybridization detected Loxhd1 expression in the developing mouse inner ear at embryonic days 13.5 and 16, but not in any other tissue. Expression was detected in cochlear and vestibular hair cells at postnatal day 4, with the highest concentration in the nucleus. Loxhd1 gradually localized to the cytoplasm, and in the adult, Loxhd1 was expressed in hair cells along the length of the stereocilia. 使用N-乙基-N-亚硝基脲(ENU)诱变筛选，Grillet等人(2009)发展'samba'小鼠系，所述小鼠系在3周龄时听力受损并且在8周龄时耳聋。纯合的samba小鼠未显示其他神经或前庭异常，并且杂合samba小鼠显得完全正常。纯合samba小鼠的静纤毛发育不受影响，但毛细胞功能紊乱并且毛细胞最终退化。Using N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis screening, Grillet et al. (2009) developed a 'samba' mouse line that is hearing impaired at 3 weeks of age and deaf at 8 weeks of age. Homozygous samba mice show no other neurological or vestibular abnormalities, and heterozygous samba mice appear completely normal. Stereocilia development in homozygous samba mice is unaffected, but hair cell function is disrupted and hair cells eventually degenerate. Grillet等人(2009)发现samba是小鼠Loxhd1基因的突变，它使PLAT结构域10的β-三明治结构不稳定。所述突变并未改变Loxhd1蛋白的mRNA或蛋白质稳定性或沿静纤毛长度的定位。然而，截至出生后第21天，一些毛细胞显示形态缺陷，具有融合的静纤毛和在顶端细胞表面的膜皱褶。截至出生后第90天，深度退行性变化很明显，包括毛细胞缺失和螺旋神经节神经元减少。Grillet等人(2009)假设螺旋神经节神经元的退化可能是继发于毛细胞功能和维持的紊乱。Grillet et al. (2009) identified samba as a mutation in the mouse Loxhd1 gene that destabilizes the β-sandwich structure of the PLAT domain 10. The mutation did not alter the mRNA or protein stability or localization of the Loxhd1 protein along the length of the stereocilia. However, by postnatal day 21, some hair cells displayed morphological defects with fused stereocilia and membrane ruffles at the apical cell surface. By postnatal day 90, profound degenerative changes were evident, including loss of hair cells and reduction of spiral ganglion neurons. Grillet et al. (2009) hypothesized that the degeneration of spiral ganglion neurons may be secondary to a disturbance in hair cell function and maintenance. 表3描述了染色体18上已知引起听力损失的LOXHD1突变。Table 3 describes LOXHD1 mutations on chromosome 18 that are known to cause hearing loss. 美国申请公布号2013/0095071(以引用的方式整体并入本文中)描述了使用突变的酪氨酸腺相关病毒载体将X-连锁凋亡抑制蛋白(XIAP)递送至内耳的圆窗膜来恢复年龄相关性听力损失的基因疗法方法。然而，所述公布未考虑递送编码功能性TMPRSS3或LOXHD1的核酸序列来预防或延迟由TMPRSS3或LOXHD1基因的基因突变引起的听力损失或耳聋的发病或恢复听力损失或耳聋，如本文所公开。U.S. Application Publication No. 2013/0095071, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, describes a gene therapy approach to restore age-related hearing loss by delivering X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) to the round window membrane of the inner ear using a mutant tyrosine adeno-associated virus vector. However, the publication does not contemplate delivering a nucleic acid sequence encoding a functional TMPRSS3 or LOXHD1 to prevent or delay the onset of hearing loss or deafness caused by genetic mutations in the TMPRSS3 or LOXHD1 genes or to restore hearing loss or deafness, as disclosed herein. 另外，开发用于听力障碍的临床基因疗法的现有技术中的一个重要陷阱是缺乏反映人类听力损失的动物模型。针对成年发病的人类遗传性听力损失的许多可用的小鼠模型都存在先天性听力损失，这使得递送研究变得复杂。很少有模型在听力发育后出现遗传性听力损失的发病。载体在新生小鼠体内的递送导致与在成年小鼠体内的递送不同的转染模式(Shu,Tao,Li等人,2016)。需要新颖动物模型，它们可用于使用不同的载体系统和基因靶来评估听力的挽救。In addition, an important pitfall in the prior art of developing clinical gene therapy for hearing impairment is the lack of animal models that reflect human hearing loss. Many available mouse models for adult-onset human genetic hearing loss have congenital hearing loss, which complicates delivery studies. Few models have the onset of genetic hearing loss after hearing development. Delivery of vectors in newborn mice results in a different transfection pattern than delivery in adult mice (Shu, Tao, Li et al., 2016). Novel animal models are needed that can be used to evaluate the rescue of hearing using different vector systems and gene targets. 综上所述，耳蜗植入是一种用于解决介于严重到深度范围内的听力损失的常见的治疗方法选择。耳蜗植入物是一种小型、复杂的电子器件，它可以帮助向深度耳聋或严重听力障碍的人提供听觉。所述植入物由位于耳朵后面的外部部分和通过手术放置在皮肤下方的第二部分组成。In summary, cochlear implants are a common treatment option for severe to profound hearing loss. A cochlear implant is a small, complex electronic device that can help provide hearing to people who are profoundly deaf or severely hard of hearing. The implant consists of an external part that sits behind the ear and a second part that is surgically placed under the skin. 虽然耳蜗植入物的设计和性能近年来取得了巨大的进步，但仍有患者使用植入物后在语言效果方面表现不佳。最近的研究已证实，引起耳聋的两种基因TMPRSS3和LoxHD1的突变在耳蜗植入结果方面也具有不良效果1。具体说来，TMPRSS3突变患者具有螺旋神经节功能障碍2。在小鼠TMPRSS3突变模型的评估期间，已证实毛细胞最初退化，随后不久是螺旋神经节细胞退化3。内耳毛细胞的永久性损伤会导致感音神经性听力损失，从而导致在很大比例的人口中存在沟通困难。毛细胞是转导声刺激的受体细胞。受损毛细胞的再生将为治疗目前除了假体器件外没有其他疗法的疾患提供一条途径。Although the design and performance of cochlear implants have advanced dramatically in recent years, there are still patients who experience poor speech outcomes with their implants. Recent studies have demonstrated that mutations in two genes that cause deafness, TMPRSS3 and LoxHD1, also have adverse effects on cochlear implant outcomes1 . Specifically, patients with TMPRSS3 mutations have spiral ganglion dysfunction2 . During evaluation of mouse models of TMPRSS3 mutations, it has been demonstrated that hair cells initially degenerate, followed shortly by spiral ganglion cell degeneration3 . Permanent damage to inner ear hair cells results in sensorineural hearing loss, which causes communication difficulties in a large percentage of the population. Hair cells are receptor cells that transduce acoustic stimuli. Regeneration of damaged hair cells would provide a way to treat conditions that currently have no treatment options other than prosthetic devices. 在具有TMPRSS3突变的人类患者的评估期间，已证实耳蜗植入功能随年龄增长而下降，这表明在人类群体中还发生螺旋神经节细胞的延迟退化4。上述情况表明，单独耳蜗植入物可能不足以对抗听力损失。During the evaluation of human patients with TMPRSS3 mutations, it has been demonstrated that cochlear implant function declines with age, suggesting that delayed degeneration of spiral ganglion cells also occurs in this human population 4 . This suggests that cochlear implants alone may not be sufficient to combat hearing loss. 因此，有机会与耳蜗植入组合来提供用于听力损失的分子治疗剂(例如基因疗法)的组合。Therefore, there is an opportunity to provide a combination of molecular therapeutics (such as gene therapy) for hearing loss in combination with cochlear implants. 发明内容Summary of the invention 本公开的实施方案尤其涉及可用于治疗和/或预防听力损失的基因疗法系统和方法。本文所述的系统和方法涉及组合基因疗法和耳蜗植入，以根据干预时间修复和/或挽救退化的毛细胞和/或退化的螺旋神经节细胞。Embodiments of the present disclosure relate particularly to gene therapy systems and methods that can be used to treat and/or prevent hearing loss. The systems and methods described herein relate to combined gene therapy and cochlear implantation to repair and/or rescue degenerating hair cells and/or degenerating spiral ganglion cells depending on the timing of intervention. 本文所公开的每个实施方案均可以包括结合任何其他所公开的实施方案描述的一个或多个特征。Each embodiment disclosed herein may include one or more features described in connection with any other disclosed embodiment. 本文公开一种包括核酸序列SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ ID NO:2或与核酸SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ ID NO:2具有至少90％序列同一性的核酸序列的表达载体，其中所述核酸序列可操作地连接至启动子。本文还公开一种用于治疗或预防听力损失的方法中的药物组合物，所述药物组合物包括具有核酸序列SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ ID NO:2或与核酸SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ IDNO:2具有至少90％序列同一性的核酸序列的表达载体，其中所述核酸序列可操作地连接至启动子。在一些实施方案中，所述核酸序列与核酸序列SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ ID NO:2具有至少75％、至少80％、至少85％、至少90％、至少95％、至少96％、至少97％、至少98％或至少99％序列同一性。在一些实施方案中，所述表达载体选自腺相关病毒载体、腺病毒载体、单纯疱疹病毒载体、牛痘病毒载体、辅助病毒依赖型腺病毒载体或慢病毒载体。在一些实施方案中，所述载体选自AAV2、AAV2/Anc80、AAV5、AAV6、AAV6.2、AAV7、AAV8、AAV9、AAVrh8、AAVrh10、AAVrh39、AAVrh43AAV1、AAV2、AAV3、AAV4、AAV5、AAV6、AAV7、AAV8、Anc80或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式的腺相关病毒载体。在一些实施方案中，所述腺相关病毒载体为AAV2、Anc80或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式。在一些实施方案中，所述启动子选自在早期发育时驱动可操作地连接的核酸的表达并在整个生命中维持表达的任何毛细胞启动子，例如TMPRSS3启动子、人巨细胞病毒(HCMV)启动子、巨细胞病毒/鸡β-肌动蛋白(CBA)启动子、Myo7a启动子或Pou4f3启动子。Disclosed herein is an expression vector comprising a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2 or a nucleic acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity with the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the nucleic acid sequence is operably linked to a promoter. Also disclosed herein is a pharmaceutical composition for use in a method for treating or preventing hearing loss, the pharmaceutical composition comprising an expression vector having a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2 or a nucleic acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity with the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the nucleic acid sequence is operably linked to a promoter. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid sequence has at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99% sequence identity with the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2. In some embodiments, the expression vector is selected from an adeno-associated virus vector, an adenovirus vector, a herpes simplex virus vector, a vaccinia virus vector, a helper virus-dependent adenovirus vector or a lentivirus vector. In some embodiments, the vector is selected from AAV2, AAV2/Anc80, AAV5, AAV6, AAV6.2, AAV7, AAV8, AAV9, AAVrh8, AAVrh10, AAVrh39, AAVrh43, AAV1, AAV2, AAV3, AAV4, AAV5, AAV6, AAV7, AAV8, Anc80 or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. In some embodiments, the adeno-associated viral vector is a synthetic form of an AAV2, Anc80 or adeno-associated viral vector serotype. In some embodiments, the promoter is selected from any hair cell promoter that drives expression of an operably linked nucleic acid during early development and maintains expression throughout life, such as a TMPRSS3 promoter, a human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) promoter, a cytomegalovirus/chicken beta-actin (CBA) promoter, a Myo7a promoter or a Pou4f3 promoter. 本文公开一种细胞，所述细胞具有包括核酸序列SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ ID NO:2或与核酸SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ ID NO:2具有至少90％序列同一性的核酸序列的表达载体，其中所述核酸序列可操作地连接至启动子。在一些实施方案中，所述核酸序列与核酸序列SEQ IDNO:1或SEQ ID NO:2具有至少75％、至少80％、至少85％、至少90％、至少95％、至少96％、至少97％、至少98％或至少99％序列同一性。在一些实施方案中，所述细胞是干细胞。在一些实施方案中，所述干细胞是诱导性多能干细胞。Disclosed herein is a cell having an expression vector comprising a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2 or a nucleic acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity with the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the nucleic acid sequence is operably linked to a promoter. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid sequence has at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99% sequence identity with the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2. In some embodiments, the cell is a stem cell. In some embodiments, the stem cell is an induced pluripotent stem cell. 本文公开一种用于治疗或预防听力损失的方法，所述方法包括向有需要的受试者施用有效量的包括核酸序列SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ ID NO:2或与核酸SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ IDNO:2具有至少90％序列同一性的核酸序列的表达载体，其中所述核酸序列可操作地连接至启动子。在一些实施方案中，所述核酸序列与核酸序列SEQ ID NO:1或SEQ ID NO:2具有至少75％、至少80％、至少85％、至少90％、至少95％、至少96％、至少97％、至少98％或至少99％序列同一性。在一些实施方案中，所述表达载体选自腺相关病毒载体、腺病毒载体、单纯疱疹病毒载体、牛痘病毒载体、辅助病毒依赖型腺病毒载体或慢病毒载体。在一些实施方案中，所述载体选自AAV2、AAV2/Anc80、AAV5、AAV6、AAV6.2、AAV7、AAV8、AAV9、AAVrh8、AAVrh10、AAVrh39、AAVrh43、AAV1、AAV2、AAV3、AAV4、AAV5、AAV6、AAV7、AAV8或Anc80或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式的腺相关病毒载体。在一些实施方案中，所述腺相关病毒载体为AAV2、Anc80或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式。在一些实施方案中，所述启动子选自在早期发育时驱动可操作地连接的核酸序列的表达并在整个生命中维持表达的任何毛细胞启动子，例如TMPRSS3启动子、人巨细胞病毒(HCMV)启动子、巨细胞病毒/鸡β-肌动蛋白(CBA)启动子、Myo7a启动子或Pou4f3启动子。在一些实施方案中，所述表达载体例如通过注射施用至所述受试者的内耳中。在一些实施方案中，所述递送方法选自耳蜗底转、圆窗膜、管造口术或其任何组合(参见Erin E.Leary Swan等人(2008)Inner Ear Drug Deliveryfor Auditory Applications.Adv Drug Deliv Rev.60(15):1583-1599)。在一些实施方案中，所述表达载体通过内淋巴囊递送至蜗管中(Colletti V等人(2010)Evidence ofgadolinium distribution from the endolymphatic sac to the endolymphaticcompartments of the human inner ear.Audiol Neurootol.15(6):353-63；MarcoMandalà,MD等人(2010)Induced endolymphatic flow from the endolymphatic sac tothe cochlea in Ménière’s disease.Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery.143,673-679；Yamasoba T等人(1999)Inner ear transgene expression after adenoviralvector inoculation in the endolymphatic sac.Hum Gene Ther.10(5):769-74)。在一些实施方案中，所述受试者具有一种或多种与听力损失相关的遗传风险因素。在一些实施方案中，所述遗传风险因素之一是TMPRSS3基因的突变。在一些实施方案中，所述TMPRSS3基因的突变选自已知引起听力损失的任何一种或多种TMPRSS3突变(参见例如表2)。在一些实施方案中，所述遗传风险因素之一是LOXHD1基因的突变。在一些实施方案中，所述LOXHD1基因的突变选自已知引起听力损失的任何一种或多种LOXHD1突变(参见例如表3)。在一些实施方案中，所述受试者未表现出听力损失的任何临床指标。Disclosed herein is a method for treating or preventing hearing loss, the method comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of an expression vector comprising a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2 or a nucleic acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity with the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the nucleic acid sequence is operably linked to a promoter. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid sequence has at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98% or at least 99% sequence identity with the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or SEQ ID NO: 2. In some embodiments, the expression vector is selected from an adeno-associated virus vector, an adenovirus vector, a herpes simplex virus vector, a vaccinia virus vector, a helper virus-dependent adenovirus vector or a lentivirus vector. In some embodiments, the vector is selected from AAV2, AAV2/Anc80, AAV5, AAV6, AAV6.2, AAV7, AAV8, AAV9, AAVrh8, AAVrh10, AAVrh39, AAVrh43, AAV1, AAV2, AAV3, AAV4, AAV5, AAV6, AAV7, AAV8 or Anc80 or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. In some embodiments, the adeno-associated viral vector is a synthetic form of AAV2, Anc80 or an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. In some embodiments, the promoter is selected from any hair cell promoter that drives expression of an operably linked nucleic acid sequence during early development and maintains expression throughout life, such as a TMPRSS3 promoter, a human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) promoter, a cytomegalovirus/chicken beta-actin (CBA) promoter, a Myo7a promoter, or a Pou4f3 promoter. In some embodiments, the expression vector is administered to the inner ear of the subject, for example, by injection. In some embodiments, the delivery method is selected from the cochlear basal turn, round window membrane, tube ostomy, or any combination thereof (see Erin E. Leary Swan et al. (2008) Inner Ear Drug Delivery for Auditory Applications. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 60 (15): 1583-1599). In some embodiments, the expression vector is delivered to the cochlear duct via the endolymphatic sac (Colletti V et al. (2010) Evidence of gadolinium distribution from the endolymphatic sac to the endolymphatic compartments of the human inner ear. Audiol Neurootol. 15(6): 353-63; Marco Mandalà, MD et al. (2010) Induced endolymphatic flow from the endolymphatic sac to the cochlea in Ménière’s disease. Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery. 143, 673-679; Yamasoba T et al. (1999) Inner ear transgene expression after adenoviral vector inoculation in the endolymphatic sac. Hum Gene Ther. 10(5): 769-74). In some embodiments, the subject has one or more genetic risk factors associated with hearing loss. In some embodiments, one of the genetic risk factors is a mutation in the TMPRSS3 gene. In some embodiments, the mutation in the TMPRSS3 gene is selected from any one or more TMPRSS3 mutations known to cause hearing loss (see, e.g., Table 2). In some embodiments, one of the genetic risk factors is a mutation in the LOXHD1 gene. In some embodiments, the mutation in the LOXHD1 gene is selected from any one or more LOXHD1 mutations known to cause hearing loss (see, e.g., Table 3). In some embodiments, the subject does not exhibit any clinical indicators of hearing loss. 在一些实施方案中，本文所述的表达载体与一种或多种包含其他核酸序列的表达载体一起和/或与一种或多种用于治疗听力损失的其他活性药剂一起作为组合疗法施用。例如，组合疗法可以包括具有核酸序列SEQ ID NO:1的第一表达载体和具有核酸序列SEQID NO:2的第二表达载体，其中两种表达载体作为组合疗法的一部分施用于受试者以治疗听力损失。In some embodiments, the expression vectors described herein are administered as a combination therapy together with one or more expression vectors comprising other nucleic acid sequences and/or with one or more other active agents for treating hearing loss. For example, the combination therapy can include a first expression vector having the nucleic acid sequence SEQ ID NO: 1 and a second expression vector having the nucleic acid sequence SEQ ID NO: 2, wherein the two expression vectors are administered to a subject as part of the combination therapy to treat hearing loss. 本文公开一种具有人TMPRSS3基因的转基因小鼠，所述人TMPRSS3基因具有选自已知引起听力损失的任何一种或多种TMPRSS3突变的突变(参见例如表2)。本文公开一种具有人LOXHD1基因的转基因小鼠，所述人LOXHD1基因具有选自已知引起听力损失的任何一种或多种LOXHD1突变的突变(参见例如表3)。Disclosed herein is a transgenic mouse having a human TMPRSS3 gene having a mutation selected from any one or more TMPRSS3 mutations known to cause hearing loss (see, e.g., Table 2).Disclosed herein is a transgenic mouse having a human LOXHD1 gene having a mutation selected from any one or more LOXHD1 mutations known to cause hearing loss (see, e.g., Table 3). 可以理解，前述一般描述和以下详细描述均仅为例示性和解释性的，并且对要求保护的本发明不具限制性。It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention, as claimed. 附图说明BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 附图并入本说明书中并且构成本说明书的一部分，说明本公开的示例性实施方案并且与所述描述一起用于解释本公开的原理。The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure and, together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the present disclosure. 图1示出编码野生型人TMPRSS3(GenBank登录号BC074847.2)的cDNA序列。FIG1 shows the cDNA sequence encoding wild-type human TMPRSS3 (GenBank Accession No. BC074847.2). 图2示出由图1中的cDNA编码的野生型人TMPRSS3氨基酸序列。FIG. 2 shows the wild-type human TMPRSS3 amino acid sequence encoded by the cDNA in FIG. 1 . 图3示出编码野生型人LOXHDI(GenBank登录号AK057232.1)的cDNA序列。FIG. 3 shows the cDNA sequence encoding wild-type human LOXHDI (GenBank Accession No. AK057232.1). 图4示出由图3中的cDNA编码的野生型人LOXHDI氨基酸序列。FIG. 4 shows the wild-type human LOXHDI amino acid sequence encoded by the cDNA in FIG. 3 . 图5示出成年小鼠耳蜗中的TMPRSS3免疫组织化学。FIG. 5 shows TMPRSS3 immunohistochemistry in adult mouse cochlea. 图6示出根据本公开的一个方面的示例性耳蜗植入物和人体内部的相应解剖学。6 illustrates an exemplary cochlear implant and corresponding anatomy inside the human body according to one aspect of the present disclosure. 图7示出示例性TMPRSS3质粒图谱，它在“ORI”处开始并且包括初始“AAV2 ITR”载体、“CMV增强子”、“CMV启动子”、“h-TMPRSS3”、“bGH poly(A)信号和闭合“AAV2 ITR”载体。FIG. 7 shows an exemplary TMPRSS3 plasmid map, which begins at “ORI” and includes the initial “AAV2 ITR” vector, the “CMV enhancer,” the “CMV promoter,” the “h-TMPRSS3,” the “bGH poly(A) signal,” and the closing “AAV2 ITR” vector. 图8通过凭借听觉脑干反应(ABR)测试，以图形方式比较接受基因疗法治疗(经治疗)的疾病模型小鼠与未接受治疗(未治疗)的疾病模型小鼠的听力恢复，说明了概念验证。FIG. 8 illustrates proof of concept by graphically comparing hearing recovery in disease model mice treated with gene therapy (treated) versus disease model mice that did not receive treatment (untreated) via auditory brainstem response (ABR) testing. 图9通过凭借畸变产物耳声发射(DPOAE)测试，以图形方式比较接受基因疗法治疗(经治疗)的疾病模型小鼠与未接受治疗(未治疗)的疾病模型小鼠的听力恢复，说明了概念验证。FIG. 9 illustrates proof of concept by graphically comparing hearing recovery in disease model mice treated with gene therapy (treated) versus disease model mice that did not receive treatment (untreated) via distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) testing. 图10通过凭借WAVE1振幅测试，以图形方式比较接受基因疗法治疗(经治疗)的疾病模型小鼠与未接受治疗(未治疗)的疾病模型小鼠的听觉神经元功能恢复，以图形方式说明了概念验证。FIG. 10 graphically illustrates proof of concept by graphically comparing the recovery of auditory neuron function in disease model mice treated with gene therapy (treated) versus disease model mice that did not receive treatment (untreated) by means of a WAVE1 amplitude test. 图11说明了人耳内的圆窗膜(RWM)位置，作为用于递送一种或多种本文所教导的基因疗法的示例性药物递送位点。11 illustrates the location of the round window membrane (RWM) within the human ear as an exemplary drug delivery site for delivering one or more gene therapy agents taught herein. 具体实施方式DETAILED DESCRIPTION 虽然本文参考针对特定应用的说明性实施方案描述了本公开的原理，但应理解，本公开不限于此。能够访问本文所提供的教导的本领域的普通技术人员应认识到，额外的修改、应用、实施方案以及等效物的取代均属于本文所述的实施方案的范围。因此，本发明不应被视为受前述描述的限制。Although the principles of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for specific applications, it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. One of ordinary skill in the art who can access the teachings provided herein should recognize that additional modifications, applications, embodiments, and replacement of equivalents all fall within the scope of the embodiments described herein. Therefore, the present invention should not be considered to be limited by the foregoing description. 本公开涉及可用于治疗和/或预防由基因突变引起的耳聋的基因疗法系统和相关方法。可突变引起耳聋的两种基因的实例是TMPRSS3基因或LoxHD1基因。本文所述的系统和方法可以使用针对由基因突变引起的听力损失的基因疗法(例如，分子治疗剂)连同耳蜗植入物的植入的组合。可理解，虽然所述系统和方法是针对由TMPRSS3基因或LoxHD1基因引起的基因突变，但可以靶向已发现的引起耳聋或听力损失的其他基因突变来进行修复。The present disclosure relates to gene therapy systems and related methods that can be used to treat and/or prevent deafness caused by gene mutations. Examples of two genes that can mutate to cause deafness are the TMPRSS3 gene or the LoxHD1 gene. The systems and methods described herein can use a combination of gene therapy (e.g., molecular therapeutic agents) for hearing loss caused by gene mutations in conjunction with the implantation of a cochlear implant. It can be understood that although the systems and methods are directed to gene mutations caused by the TMPRSS3 gene or the LoxHD1 gene, other gene mutations that have been found to cause deafness or hearing loss can be targeted for repair. 出于本公开的目的，可以使用以下“基因疗法”的定义。基因疗法可以指将DNA引入患者中以治疗遗传疾病。所述新的DNA通常含有一个功能性基因来纠正现有基因中致病突变的影响。出于实验或治疗目的，基因转移依赖于载体或载体系统将遗传信息穿梭到靶细胞中。所述载体或载体系统被视为基因转移反应的效率、特异性、宿主反应、药理学和寿命的主要决定因素。目前，实现基因转移的最高效并且最有效的方式是使用基于已制成复制缺陷型的病毒的载体或载体系统(PCT公布号WO 2015/054653；Methods of PredictingAncestral Virus Sequences and Uses Thereof)。For the purposes of this disclosure, the following definition of 'gene therapy' may be used. Gene therapy may refer to the introduction of DNA into a patient to treat a genetic disease. The new DNA typically contains a functional gene to correct the effects of pathogenic mutations in existing genes. For experimental or therapeutic purposes, gene transfer relies on a vector or vector system to shuttle genetic information into target cells. The vector or vector system is considered to be the main determinant of the efficiency, specificity, host response, pharmacology and lifespan of the gene transfer reaction. Currently, the most efficient and effective way to achieve gene transfer is to use a vector or vector system based on a virus that has been made replication-defective (PCT Publication No. WO 2015/054653; Methods of Predicting Ancestral Virus Sequences and Uses Thereof). 如本文所用，术语“治疗(treat/treating/treatment)”涵盖旨在实现临床效果的所需变化的多种活动。例如，如本文所用，术语“治疗”涵盖旨在实现或确实实现听力损失的一个或多个临床指标或症状的可检测改进的任何活动，如本文所述。As used herein, the terms 'treat', 'treating' and 'treatment' encompass a variety of activities intended to achieve a desired change in clinical effect. For example, as used herein, the term 'treatment' encompasses any activity intended to achieve or actually achieve a detectable improvement in one or more clinical indicators or symptoms of hearing loss, as described herein. 但是，LOXHD1基因(例如，如基因诊断测试所检测)尚未表现出听力损失的临床指标或症状，因此提供了一个可启动治疗干预的窗口。因此，在一些实施方案中，本发明提供在听力逐渐衰退的时期中进行治疗干预的方法。本发明方法可在此类时期之前开始。本发明提供的治疗听力损失的方法包括但不限于用于预防或延迟听力损失的发病或听力损失的临床指标或症状的进展的方法。However, the LOXHD1 gene (e.g., as detected by a genetic diagnostic test) does not yet demonstrate clinical indicators or symptoms of hearing loss, thus providing a window in which therapeutic intervention may be initiated. Thus, in some embodiments, the present invention provides methods for therapeutic intervention during a period of progressive hearing loss. The methods of the present invention may be initiated prior to such a period. The methods of treating hearing loss provided herein include, but are not limited to, methods for preventing or delaying the onset of hearing loss or the progression of clinical indicators or symptoms of hearing loss. 如本文所用，术语“听力损失”用于描述听到声音的能力降低，并且包括耳聋和完全不能听到声音。As used herein, the term 'hearing loss' is used to describe a reduced ability to hear sounds, and includes deafness and the complete inability to hear sounds. 如本文所用，术语“有效量”或“治疗有效量”是指如本文所述的活性剂的量，所述量足以实现或有助于实现一种或多种所需临床效果，诸如上文“治疗”描述中所述的那些。在任何个别情形中，适当的“有效”量可以使用本领域中已知的标准技术，诸如剂量递增研究来确定。如本文所用，术语“活性剂”是指意图用于本文所述的组合物和方法中并且意图具生物活性(例如，出于治疗听力损失的目的)的分子(例如，本文所述的AAV载体)。As used herein, the term 'effective amount' or 'therapeutically effective amount' refers to an amount of an active agent as described herein that is sufficient to achieve or contribute to achieving one or more desired clinical effects, such as those described in the 'treatment' description above. In any individual case, an appropriate 'effective' amount can be determined using standard techniques known in the art, such as dose escalation studies. As used herein, the term 'active agent' refers to a molecule (e.g., an AAV vector described herein) that is intended for use in the compositions and methods described herein and is intended to be biologically active (e.g., for the purpose of treating hearing loss). 如本文所用，术语“药物组合物”是指如下组合物，所述组合物包含至少一种如本文所述的活性剂或两种或更多种活性剂的组合，以及一种或多种适合用于药物递送的其他组分，诸如载体、稳定剂、稀释剂、分散剂、悬浮剂、增稠剂、赋形剂等。As used herein, the term 'pharmaceutical composition' refers to a composition comprising at least one active agent as described herein or a combination of two or more active agents, and one or more other components suitable for drug delivery, such as carriers, stabilizers, diluents, dispersants, suspending agents, thickeners, excipients, etc. 如本文中可互换使用，术语“受试者”或“患者”涵盖哺乳动物，包括但不限于人、非人灵长类动物、啮齿动物(诸如大鼠、小鼠和豚鼠)等。在本发明的一些实施方案中，所述受试者为人。As used interchangeably herein, the terms 'subject' or 'patient' encompass mammals, including but not limited to humans, non-human primates, rodents (such as rats, mice, and guinea pigs), etc. In some embodiments of the invention, the subject is a human. 如本文所用，可以使用术语“载体(vector/vectors)”。“载体”可指能够将所需基因转移至细胞中，但不能接管或伤害细胞的病毒。迄今为止，腺病毒、腺相关病毒、单纯疱疹病毒、牛痘病毒、逆转录病毒、辅助病毒依赖型腺病毒和慢病毒均已针对耳蜗基因递送进行测试。其中，已证实最具潜力的是腺相关病毒(AAV)：它不复制，可有效地将转基因转移至内耳，并且不会引起耳毒性。特别是，AAV可有效地转染内毛细胞，如果人们希望纠正由于毛细胞特异性突变引起的遗传缺陷，那么这是一个关键特征。迄今为止，许多不同的AAV亚型已成功用于耳蜗基因递送，证实对柯蒂氏器官几乎没有损害。最近一份研究AAV血清型1、2、5、6和8的报告证实了毛细胞、支持细胞、听觉神经和螺旋韧带中的成功基因表达，其中毛细胞经过最有效转导(Lawrence R.Lustig,MD和Omar Akil,PhD(2012)Cochlear GeneTherapy.Curr Opin Neurol.25(1):57-60)。可施用于内耳的AAV载体的实例进一步描述于美国专利申请号2013/0095071中，所述美国专利申请以引用的方式整体并入本文中。As used herein, the term 'vector' may be used. 'Vector' may refer to a virus that is able to transfer a desired gene into a cell, but cannot take over or harm the cell. To date, adenovirus, adeno-associated virus, herpes simplex virus, vaccinia virus, retrovirus, helper-dependent adenovirus, and lentivirus have all been tested for cochlear gene delivery. Of these, the adeno-associated virus (AAV) has proven to have the most potential: it does not replicate, can effectively transfer transgenes to the inner ear, and does not cause ototoxicity. In particular, AAV can effectively transfect inner hair cells, which is a key feature if one wishes to correct genetic defects caused by hair cell-specific mutations. To date, many different AAV subtypes have been successfully used for cochlear gene delivery, demonstrating little damage to the organ of Corti. A recent report investigating AAV serotypes 1, 2, 5, 6, and 8 demonstrated successful gene expression in hair cells, supporting cells, auditory nerve, and spiral ligament, with hair cells being most efficiently transduced (Lawrence R. Lustig, MD and Omar Akil, PhD (2012) Cochlear Gene Therapy. Curr Opin Neurol. 25(1):57-60). Examples of AAV vectors that can be administered to the inner ear are further described in U.S. Patent Application No. 2013/0095071, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 目前尚无用于预防或治疗听力损失或耳聋的批准治疗剂。患有致残听力损失的那些人目前的治疗选择是耳蜗植入物。如本文所述，通过仔细评估听力损失的常见隐性原因的发生率并且考虑基因的大小，有可能开发出一种组合治疗疗法系统，所述组合治疗疗法系统可供常见的患者群体使用。There are currently no approved therapeutic agents for the prevention or treatment of hearing loss or deafness. The current treatment option for those with disabling hearing loss is a cochlear implant. As described herein, by carefully evaluating the incidence of common recessive causes of hearing loss and taking into account the size of the gene, it is possible to develop a combination therapy system that can be used by common patient populations. 耳蜗植入物通过绕过毛细胞的功能并且直接刺激螺旋神经节细胞来起作用。毛细胞是所有脊椎动物的耳中的听觉系统和前庭系统的感觉受体。通过机械转导，毛细胞检测其环境中的运动。然而，由于一种或多种基因(例如TMPRSS3、LoxHD1等)的突变，这些细胞在某些动物(例如人类)中可恶化。螺旋(耳蜗)神经节是一组神经细胞，它们通过将声音的表现从耳蜗发送到大脑来服务于听觉。螺旋神经节神经元的细胞体存在于蜗轴，即耳蜗的圆锥形中心轴中。因此，具有功能性螺旋神经节对于耳蜗植入功能的最佳发挥至关重要。然而，如先前所述，这些螺旋神经节细胞可能易受导致听力损伤或听力损失的基因突变的影响。如所提及的毛细胞也可能易受基因突变的影响，这也可能导致听力损失或损伤。Cochlear implants work by bypassing the function of hair cells and directly stimulating spiral ganglion cells. Hair cells are sensory receptors for the auditory and vestibular systems in the ears of all vertebrates. Through mechanotransduction, hair cells detect movement in their environment. However, these cells can deteriorate in some animals (e.g., humans) due to mutations in one or more genes (e.g., TMPRSS3, LoxHD1, etc.). The spiral (cochlear) ganglion is a group of nerve cells that serve hearing by sending representations of sound from the cochlea to the brain. The cell bodies of the spiral ganglion neurons are found in the modiolus, the cone-shaped central axis of the cochlea. Therefore, having a functional spiral ganglion is essential for optimal cochlear implant function. However, as previously mentioned, these spiral ganglion cells may be susceptible to genetic mutations that lead to hearing impairment or hearing loss. As mentioned, hair cells may also be susceptible to genetic mutations, which may also lead to hearing loss or damage. 根据本公开的一个方面，通过病毒载体递送TMPRSS3基因(或任何其他合适基因)的天然副本可以用于治疗毛细胞和/或螺旋神经节细胞，视所使用的载体和启动子而定。视毛细胞和/或螺旋神经节细胞的恶化水平而定。According to one aspect of the present disclosure, delivery of a natural copy of the TMPRSS3 gene (or any other suitable gene) via a viral vector can be used to treat hair cells and/or spiral ganglion cells, depending on the vector and promoter used. Depending on the level of deterioration of the hair cells and/or spiral ganglion cells. 视干预时间而定，TMPRSS3有可能挽救退化的毛细胞和/或退化的螺旋神经节细胞。对于由于已经历的听力损失程度而接受耳蜗植入的患者，TMPRSS3基因疗法可以通过保留螺旋神经节功能并预防进一步退化来增强植入功能，从而使植入物在给定潜在细胞基质的情况下发挥最佳功能。'Depending on the timing of intervention, TMPRSS3 has the potential to rescue degenerating hair cells and/or degenerating spiral ganglion cells. For patients who have received cochlear implants due to the degree of hearing loss they have already experienced, TMPRSS3 gene therapy could enhance implant function by preserving spiral ganglion function and preventing further degeneration, allowing the implant to function optimally given the underlying cellular matrix.' TMPRSS3是听力损失的一个相当常见的原因，其严重程度足以保证耳蜗植入。另外，具有TMPRSS3突变的患者可能与具有其他突变的患者一样对耳蜗植入没有反应(Shearer等人,2017)。这提供了机会来靶向TMPRSS3或诸如LOXHD1等其他基因，作为独立治疗剂或与其他治疗剂和/或耳蜗植入组合以改进这一病症的植入效果。有文件证实TMPRSS3突变可能是语后隐性听力损失的最常见原因，其在耳蜗内的分布相当有限，并且由于基因的大小，可能被构建到现有的AAV载体中。TMPRSS3 is a fairly common cause of hearing loss that is severe enough to warrant a cochlear implant. Additionally, patients with TMPRSS3 mutations may not respond to cochlear implants, as may patients with other mutations (Shearer et al., 2017). This provides an opportunity to target TMPRSS3 or other genes such as LOXHD1 as stand-alone therapeutics or in combination with other therapeutics and/or cochlear implants to improve implant outcomes for this condition. TMPRSS3 mutations have been documented to be the most common cause of postlingual recessive hearing loss, have a fairly limited distribution within the cochlea, and due to the size of the gene, could potentially be constructed into existing AAV vectors. 美国申请公布号2013/0095071(以引用的方式整体并入本文中)描述了使用突变的酪氨酸腺相关病毒载体将X-连锁凋亡抑制蛋白(XIAP)递送至内耳的圆窗膜来恢复年龄相关性听力损失的基因疗法方法。然而，所述公布未考虑递送编码功能性TMPRSS3或LOXHD1的核酸序列来预防或延迟由TMPRSS3或LOXHD1基因的基因突变引起的听力损失或耳聋的发病或恢复听力损失或耳聋，如本文所公开。U.S. Application Publication No. 2013/0095071, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, describes a gene therapy approach to restore age-related hearing loss by delivering X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) to the round window membrane of the inner ear using a mutant tyrosine adeno-associated virus vector. However, the publication does not contemplate delivering a nucleic acid sequence encoding a functional TMPRSS3 or LOXHD1 to prevent or delay the onset of hearing loss or deafness caused by genetic mutations in the TMPRSS3 or LOXHD1 genes or to restore hearing loss or deafness, as disclosed herein. 在一个示例性实施方案中，并且如本文所教导，所述治疗性治疗可以使用耳蜗植入物中的导管或端口通过内耳的圆窗膜(RMW)进行递送，如图11所描绘。在一个示例性实施方案中，人内耳内的圆窗膜(RMW)可以充当一个潜在的药物递送位点。图11是人耳的解剖图像的注释版本，可在https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Blausen_0328_EarAnatomy.png处获得。参见Blausen.com staff(2014).'Medical gallery of BlausenMedical 2014'.WikiJournal of Medicine 1(2)。In an exemplary embodiment, and as taught herein, the therapeutic treatment can be delivered through the round window membrane (RMW) of the inner ear using a catheter or port in a cochlear implant, as depicted in FIG. 11 . In an exemplary embodiment, the round window membrane (RMW) in the human inner ear can serve as a potential drug delivery site. FIG. 11 is an annotated version of an anatomical image of the human ear, available at https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Blausen_0328_EarAnatomy.png. See Blausen.com staff (2014). 'Medical gallery of BlausenMedical 2014'. WikiJournal of Medicine 1 (2). 如上文所提及，目前尚无用于预防或治疗听力损失或耳聋的批准治疗性治疗并且缺乏用于测试此类治疗的可用的临床前动物模型。因此，本公开描述使用病毒载体将TMPRSS3或LOXHD1基因递送至内耳中以恢复突变的TMPRSS3基因或LOXHD1基因的活性，促进毛细胞存活并且恢复患有听力损失或耳聋的患者的听力的系统和方法，以及用于测试此类组合物和方法的基于细胞和基于动物的模型，同时还组合耳蜗植入治疗。As mentioned above, there are currently no approved therapeutic treatments for preventing or treating hearing loss or deafness and there is a lack of available preclinical animal models for testing such treatments. Therefore, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for delivering TMPRSS3 or LOXHD1 genes into the inner ear using viral vectors to restore the activity of mutated TMPRSS3 genes or LOXHD1 genes, promote hair cell survival, and restore hearing to patients with hearing loss or deafness, as well as cell-based and animal-based models for testing such compositions and methods, while also combining cochlear implant therapy. 与TMPRSS3(DFNA8/10)突变相关的听力损失可出现在多种不同的表型中。先天性深度听力损失以及成年发病的进行性听力损失均有描述(Weegerink等人,2011)。目前，Tmprss3功能障碍的机制尚不清楚。已经开发了两种小鼠模型以对出生时存在听力损失和听力损失在稍晚的时间点发病但仍在听力和小鼠成熟之前的另一模型确定日期。Fasquelle等人产生了乙基-亚硝基脲诱导的突变小鼠，所述突变小鼠在Tmprss3中携带蛋白质截短无义突变。这证实在出生后第12天，大约在听力成熟的时候，毛细胞缺失并且听力退化。另外，囊状毛细胞受到影响并且注意到螺旋神经节细胞的延迟退化(Fasquelle等人,2011)。在小鼠模型中，尚不清楚螺旋神经节的退化是否与柯蒂氏器官的退化有关，或是由于螺旋神经节中的Tmprss3功能障碍。许多研究已经评估了Tmprrss3在小鼠内耳内的分布，并在很大程度上证实了Tmprss3在毛细胞和螺旋神经节细胞中的存在(Fan,Zhu,Li,Ji和Wang,2014；Fasquelle等人,2011)。使用抗体抗TMPRSS3(1:100，ab167160，Abcam,Cambridge,MA)在1月龄C57BI5小鼠中评估小鼠Tmprss3的表达。在内毛细胞和外毛细胞、血管纹和约50％的螺旋神经节细胞中可见标记(图5)。这表明，尽管在Fasquelle小鼠模型中未见到耳蜗内电位的变化，但TMPRSS3功能的损失还可能导致纹功能的损失(Fasquelle等人,2011)。Hearing loss associated with TMPRSS3 (DFNA8/10) mutations can present in a variety of different phenotypes. Both congenital profound hearing loss and adult-onset progressive hearing loss have been described (Weegerink et al., 2011). Currently, the mechanism of Tmprss3 dysfunction is unclear. Two mouse models have been developed to date hearing loss present at birth and another model in which hearing loss develops at a slightly later time point but still before hearing and mouse maturation. Fasquelle et al. generated ethyl-nitrosourea-induced mutant mice that carry a protein-truncating nonsense mutation in Tmprss3. This demonstrated that hair cells are missing and hearing degenerates by postnatal day 12, around the time of hearing maturation. In addition, saccular hair cells were affected and delayed degeneration of spiral ganglion cells was noted (Fasquelle et al., 2011). In the mouse model, it is unclear whether the degeneration of the spiral ganglion is associated with the degeneration of the organ of Corti or is due to Tmprss3 dysfunction in the spiral ganglion. Many studies have evaluated the distribution of Tmprss3 within the mouse inner ear and have largely confirmed the presence of Tmprss3 in hair cells and spiral ganglion cells (Fan, Zhu, Li, Ji, and Wang, 2014; Fasquelle et al., 2011). Mouse Tmprss3 expression was assessed in 1-month-old C57BI5 mice using antibody anti-TMPRSS3 (1:100, ab167160, Abcam, Cambridge, MA). Labeling was seen in inner and outer hair cells, stria vascularis, and approximately 50% of spiral ganglion cells (Figure 5). This suggests that although changes in intracochlear potentials were not seen in the Fasquelle mouse model, loss of TMPRSS3 function may also result in loss of stria function (Fasquelle et al., 2011). TMPRSS3基因型-表型研究证实了多种不同形式的听力损失，介于深度先天性至成年发病的进行性听力损失范围内(Chung等人,2014；Gao等人,2017；Weegerink等人,2011)。研究表明，由TMPRSS3突变导致的听力损失可能占接受成人耳蜗植入的患者的2至5％(Jolly等人,2012；Miyagawa,Nishio和Usami,2016；Sloan-Heggen等人,2016)。许多具有这些突变的患者具有大量的残留听力。这将使其成为潜在挽救疗法的一个有吸引力的靶，因为会有可以经治疗的细胞基质。关于具有这种突变的患者的耳蜗植入的成功与否，有一些不同的研究。与其他形式的遗传性耳聋相比，耳蜗植入对由TMPRSS3缺失诱导的听力损失的至少一些形式可能效果不佳(Shearer等人,2017)。这可能与这种基因在毛细胞和高达50％的螺旋神经节细胞中表达的事实有关(参见图5)。当选择用于递送的载体系统时，需要考虑这些差异。将以强烈的毛细胞嗜性和组合的毛细胞与螺旋神经节嗜性测试载体。当比较新生儿和成人内耳递送时，也已发现了载体嗜性的差异(Shu,Tao,Li等人,2016；Shu,Tao,Wang等人,2016a)。由于目标临床群体是具有成熟听觉系统的人，本文公开了一种在听力成熟后出现听力损失的发病的小鼠模型，其中可用作疾病进展的模型(参见实施例1)和向成年耳蜗递送挽救疗法的模型(参见实施例2)。TMPRSS3 genotype-phenotype studies have demonstrated a variety of different forms of hearing loss, ranging from profound congenital to adult-onset progressive hearing loss (Chung et al., 2014; Gao et al., 2017; Weegerink et al., 2011). Studies have shown that hearing loss caused by TMPRSS3 mutations may account for 2 to 5% of patients who receive adult cochlear implants (Jolly et al., 2012; Miyagawa, Nishio, and Usami, 2016; Sloan-Heggen et al., 2016). Many patients with these mutations have a large amount of residual hearing. This would make it an attractive target for potential salvage therapy because there would be a cellular matrix that could be treated. There are some mixed studies on the success of cochlear implants in patients with this mutation. Cochlear implants may be less effective for at least some forms of hearing loss induced by TMPRSS3 deficiency than for other forms of genetic deafness (Shearer et al., 2017). This may be related to the fact that this gene is expressed in hair cells and up to 50% of spiral ganglion cells (see Figure 5). These differences need to be taken into account when selecting a vector system for delivery. Vectors will be tested with strong hair cell tropism and combined hair cell and spiral ganglion tropism. Differences in vector tropism have also been found when comparing neonatal and adult inner ear delivery (Shu, Tao, Li et al., 2016; Shu, Tao, Wang et al., 2016a). Since the target clinical population is humans with a mature auditory system, a mouse model of the onset of hearing loss after hearing maturation is disclosed herein, which can be used as a model of disease progression (see Example 1) and a model for delivering rescue therapy to the adult cochlea (see Example 2). 因此，本公开的一个目标是提供使用上述基因疗法技术连同耳蜗植入的组合的机会。Therefore, one object of the present disclosure is to provide the opportunity to use the above-mentioned gene therapy techniques in combination with cochlear implants. 示例性实施方案Exemplary embodiments 根据一个示例性实施方案，本文所教导的基因疗法技术可以与耳蜗植入组合递送。在一个示例性实施方案中，并且参考附录图1，耳蜗植入物可以包含：1)麦克风，它可以接收来自环境的声音；2)语音处理器，它可以选择并且安排由麦克风拾取的声音；3)发射器和接收器/刺激器，它可以经配置以接收来自语音处理器的信号并将其转换为电脉冲；和4)电极阵列，这是一组电极，它收集来自刺激器的脉冲并将其发送至听觉神经的不同区域。在一个示例性实施方案中，所述耳蜗植入物可以是一种小型、复杂的电子器件，它可以帮助向深度耳聋或严重听力障碍的人提供听觉。所述植入物由位于耳朵后面的外部部分和通过手术放置在皮肤下方的第二部分组成。According to an exemplary embodiment, the gene therapy techniques taught herein can be delivered in combination with a cochlear implant. In an exemplary embodiment, and with reference to Appendix Figure 1, a cochlear implant can include: 1) a microphone that can receive sounds from the environment; 2) a speech processor that can select and arrange the sounds picked up by the microphone; 3) a transmitter and receiver/stimulator that can be configured to receive signals from the speech processor and convert them into electrical pulses; and 4) an electrode array, which is a set of electrodes that collects pulses from the stimulator and sends them to different areas of the auditory nerve. In an exemplary embodiment, the cochlear implant can be a small, complex electronic device that can help provide hearing to people who are profoundly deaf or severely hard of hearing. The implant consists of an external portion that is located behind the ear and a second portion that is surgically placed under the skin. 根据本公开的一个方面，可能有资格接受本文所教导的疗法的患者可为：(1)耳蜗植入物的当前用户，或(2)耳蜗植入物的候选人，但不是当前用户，即期望基因疗法治疗与新的耳蜗植入物安装相结合(两者同时进行)的新的耳蜗植入物用户。According to one aspect of the present disclosure, patients who may be eligible for the therapies taught herein may be: (1) current users of cochlear implants, or (2) candidates for cochlear implants but not current users, i.e., new cochlear implant users who desire gene therapy treatment combined with new cochlear implant placement (both simultaneously). 耳蜗植入物是经设计以模拟健康内耳(或耳蜗)的功能。它们代替了所述内耳内部受损的感觉毛细胞的功能，帮助提供比助听器所能提供更清晰的声音。当一个人经历听力损失或听力严重受损时，可以植入耳蜗植入物以使其通过其听觉神经接收外部信息。在感音神经性听力损失(这意味着人的内耳的毛细胞受损)期间，受损的毛细胞不再能够向其听觉神经发送声音。如上所述，耳蜗植入物绕过或跳过内耳中这些受损的毛细胞，将信息直接递送至听觉神经。研究已示出，某些基因易受突变的影响，所述突变会在出生时或在人的生命后期过早地损害或恶化这些毛细胞(和/或螺旋神经节)。如上所述，研究已证实引起耳聋的两种基因TMPRSS3和LoxHD1的突变可能在耳蜗植入结果方面具有不良效果1。具体说来，典型的TMPRSS3突变患者的螺旋神经节和毛细胞中的任一者或两者可能具有功能障碍。在小鼠TMPRSS3突变模型的评估期间，已证实毛细胞最初退化，随后不久是螺旋神经节细胞退化3。在具有TMPRSS3突变的人类患者的评估期间，已进一步证实耳蜗植入功能随年龄增长而下降，这表明在人类群体中还发生螺旋神经节细胞的延迟退化4。Cochlear implants are designed to mimic the function of a healthy inner ear (or cochlea). They replace the function of damaged sensory hair cells inside the inner ear, helping to provide clearer sound than hearing aids can provide. When a person experiences hearing loss or severe hearing loss, a cochlear implant can be implanted to allow them to receive external information through their auditory nerve. During sensorineural hearing loss (which means that the hair cells of a person's inner ear are damaged), the damaged hair cells are no longer able to send sound to their auditory nerve. As described above, cochlear implants bypass or skip these damaged hair cells in the inner ear and deliver information directly to the auditory nerve. Studies have shown that certain genes are susceptible to mutations that damage or deteriorate these hair cells (and/or spiral ganglia) prematurely at birth or later in a person's life. As described above, studies have shown that mutations in two genes that cause deafness, TMPRSS3 and LoxHD1, may have adverse effects on cochlear implant outcomes 1. Specifically, either or both of the spiral ganglia and hair cells in typical TMPRSS3 mutation patients may have dysfunction. During evaluation of mouse TMPRSS3 mutation models, it has been demonstrated that hair cells degenerate initially, followed shortly by spiral ganglion cell degeneration 3 . During evaluation of human patients with TMPRSS3 mutations, it has been further demonstrated that cochlear implant function declines with age, suggesting that delayed degeneration of spiral ganglion cells also occurs in the human population 4 . 如先前所述，具有TMPRSS3突变的患者可能与具有其他突变的患者一样对耳蜗植入没有反应(Shearer等人,2017)。这提供了机会来靶向TMPRSS3或诸如LOXHD1等其他基因，与耳蜗植入组合使用基因疗法技术来修复这些受损的毛细胞和/或螺旋神经节细胞以改进这一病症的植入效果。换句话说，所述耳蜗植入物可以用于绕过有缺陷的毛细胞并直接刺激螺旋神经节细胞，并且与所述植入物组合，基因疗法可以用于修复受损的毛细胞和/或通过自然原因和/或遗传缺陷受到破坏的螺旋神经节细胞。可以理解，本文所述的系统和方法可以使用任何市面上有售的耳蜗植入物。As previously described, patients with TMPRSS3 mutations may not respond to cochlear implants, as may patients with other mutations (Shearer et al., 2017). This provides an opportunity to target TMPRSS3 or other genes such as LOXHD1, and use gene therapy techniques in combination with cochlear implants to repair these damaged hair cells and/or spiral ganglion cells to improve the implant effect of this condition. In other words, the cochlear implant can be used to bypass defective hair cells and directly stimulate spiral ganglion cells, and in combination with the implant, gene therapy can be used to repair damaged hair cells and/or spiral ganglion cells that have been damaged by natural causes and/or genetic defects. It will be appreciated that the systems and methods described herein can be used with any commercially available cochlear implant. 可以理解的是，在一些情况下，遗传病症可能在出生时引起有缺陷的毛细胞和/或螺旋神经节。然而，在一些儿童中，可能引起部分或全部听力损失的基因突变可能发生在生命的后期(例如青春期、成年期等)。It is understood that in some cases, genetic disorders may cause defective hair cells and/or spiral ganglia at birth. However, in some children, genetic mutations that may cause partial or complete hearing loss may occur later in life (e.g., adolescence, adulthood, etc.). 本公开的各方面涵盖关于用于治疗和/或修复内耳的这些遗传缺陷细胞(例如毛细胞、螺旋神经节等)的基因疗法(例如TMPRSS3、LoxHD1等)的示例性实施方案。图7描绘了可以用于根据本文所教导的各方面的基因疗法的TMPRSS3载体构建体的示例性质粒图谱。所述质粒图谱说明具有5,667bp的“AAV-cDNA 6-hTMPRSS3”。使用“AAV-cDNA 6-hTMPRSS3”质粒进行基因疗法的耳蜗植入可以用于实现本公开所规定的一个或多个目标。Various aspects of the present disclosure encompass exemplary embodiments of gene therapy (e.g., TMPRSS3, LoxHD1, etc.) for treating and/or repairing these genetically defective cells of the inner ear (e.g., hair cells, spiral ganglion, etc.). FIG. 7 depicts an exemplary plasmid map of a TMPRSS3 vector construct that can be used for gene therapy according to various aspects taught herein. The plasmid map illustrates 'AAV-cDNA 6-hTMPRSS3' with 5,667 bp. Cochlear implantation for gene therapy using the 'AAV-cDNA 6-hTMPRSS3' plasmid can be used to achieve one or more of the goals set forth in the present disclosure. 例如，如图2所描绘的“AAV-cDNA 6-hTMPRSS3”可以用于在遗传学上治疗或修复TMPRSS3基因的突变。在此过程中，并视基因疗法的干预时间而定，修饰的TMPRSS3基因可能修复由突变和有缺陷的基因引起的受损毛细胞和/或螺旋神经节。For example, 'AAV-cDNA 6-hTMPRSS3' as depicted in Figure 2 can be used to genetically treat or repair mutations in the TMPRSS3 gene. In this process, and depending on the timing of gene therapy intervention, the modified TMPRSS3 gene may repair damaged hair cells and/or spiral ganglia caused by mutations and defective genes. 在一个示例性实施方案中，图7的质粒图谱在“ORI”处开始并且包括初始“AAV2ITR”载体、“CMV增强子”、“CMV启动子”、“h-TMPRSS3”、“bGH poly(A)信号和闭合“AAV2 ITR”载体。任选地，可以使用额外治疗构建体“AmpR启动子’。可以理解的是，可以使用其他载体来实现根据本公开的各方面的目标。In an exemplary embodiment, the plasmid map of Figure 7 starts at 'ORI' and includes the initial 'AAV2 ITR' vector, 'CMV enhancer', 'CMV promoter', 'h-TMPRSS3', 'bGH poly (A) signal and the closed 'AAV2 ITR' vector. Optionally, an additional therapeutic construct 'AmpR promoter' can be used. It will be appreciated that other vectors can be used to achieve the objectives according to various aspects of the present disclosure. 概念验证Proof of Concept 小鼠模型：在CBA/J背景下产生TRMPSS小鼠模型。当用CBA/J菌株育种时，这些模型建立了突变系。所述突变为基因敲入模型点突变。所述突变为c.916G>A(p.Ala306Thr)纯合突变。Mouse Model: TRMPSS mouse models were generated in a CBA/J background. When bred with CBA/J strains, these models established mutant lines. The mutations were point mutations for gene knock-in models. The mutations were homozygous mutations of c.916G>A (p.Ala306Thr). TMPRSS3 c.916G>A(p.Ala306Thr)已在中国、德国、荷兰和韩国的10多个耳聋患者家族中经鉴定，从而指示这种突变是许多种族的DFNB8/DFNB10表型的主要贡献者。(Weegerink等人,2011；J.Lee等人,2013；J.Chung等人,2014；M.Elbracht等人,2007；Gao X等人,2017)。TMPRSS3 c.916G>A (p.Ala306Thr) has been identified in more than 10 families with deafness in China, Germany, the Netherlands, and Korea, indicating that this mutation is a major contributor to the DFNB8/DFNB10 phenotype in many ethnic groups (Weegerink et al., 2011; J. Lee et al., 2013; J. Chung et al., 2014; M. Elbracht et al., 2007; Gao X et al., 2017). ABR测试的外行解释：ABR测试测量听觉功能。X轴(水平)列出了以千赫(kh)表述的频率(音调)。X轴左侧的数字是沉音符(如低音音符)，当你向右移动时，所述数字或音调会变高(如长笛音符)。Y轴(垂直)描述了听觉或响度的“阈值”(以分贝或db表述)，即在小鼠听到之前，我们必须把音量调大多大。Layman's explanation of the ABR test: The ABR test measures hearing function. The X-axis (horizontal) lists the frequencies (tones) expressed in kilohertz (kh). The numbers on the left side of the X-axis are dull notes (like bass notes), and as you move to the right, the numbers or tones get higher (like flute notes). The Y-axis (vertical) describes the 'threshold' of hearing or loudness (expressed in decibels or db), i.e. how loud we had to turn the volume before the mice could hear it. 如图8所示，使用听觉脑反应(ABR)测试来测量突变(未治疗)小鼠和突变实验(经治疗)小鼠在不同频率下的听觉阈值。未治疗组(10)有2只小鼠并且治疗组(12)有2只小鼠。经治疗小鼠(12)已经在对侧内耳处注射1uL(微升)AAV-TMPRSS3(基因疗法治疗)。1个月后(注射后的时间)，使用ABR来测试经治疗和未治疗小鼠的听力。如图6所示，经治疗小鼠(12)的听力阈值比对照(未治疗)小鼠(10)的听力阈值低得多。解释-经治疗小鼠(12)比未治疗小鼠10更早(在较低音量下)听到所有频率。As shown in Figure 8, the auditory brain response (ABR) test was used to measure the hearing thresholds of mutant (untreated) mice and mutant experimental (treated) mice at different frequencies. There were 2 mice in the untreated group (10) and 2 mice in the treated group (12). The treated mice (12) had been injected with 1uL (microliter) of AAV-TMPRSS3 (gene therapy treatment) in the contralateral inner ear. After 1 month (time after injection), the hearing of the treated and untreated mice was tested using ABR. As shown in Figure 6, the hearing threshold of the treated mice (12) was much lower than that of the control (untreated) mice (10). Interpretation-The treated mice (12) heard all frequencies earlier (at a lower volume) than the untreated mice 10. DPOAE测试的外行解释：DPOAE是外毛细胞(OHC)功能的度量。OHC控制进入的声音的音量(即，耳朵的音量控制旋钮)。在图9中，X和Y轴与图8中相同。X轴是频率或音调并且Y轴是听到所需要的阈值或音量。Layman's explanation of the DPOAE test: DPOAE is a measure of outer hair cell (OHC) function. The OHC controls the volume of incoming sound (i.e., the volume control knob of the ear). In Figure 9, the X and Y axes are the same as in Figure 8. The X axis is frequency or pitch and the Y axis is the threshold or volume required to hear. 转到图9，示出使用畸变产物耳声发射测试(DPOAE)的相似改进。15月龄的未治疗小鼠(10)的DPOAE阈值升高，而经治疗小鼠(12)的DPOAE阈值恢复到正常水平。解释-与未治疗小鼠(10)相比，经治疗小鼠(12)需要较低音量听到声音。数据表明，经治疗小鼠(12)的OHC正在恢复正常功能。Turning to Figure 9, similar improvements using the distortion product otoacoustic emissions test (DPOAE) are shown. The DPOAE thresholds of the untreated mice (10) at 15 months of age were elevated, while the DPOAE thresholds of the treated mice (12) returned to normal levels. Interpretation - The treated mice (12) required lower volumes to hear sounds compared to the untreated mice (10). The data suggest that the OHC of the treated mice (12) is recovering normal function. WAVE1测试的外行解释：WAVE 1测试是由ABR测试提供的额外测量。Wave 1振幅测量神经元活动，包括螺旋神经节细胞中的许多听觉神经纤维的同步放电。(水平)X轴测量对声音刺激(咔哒声)的反应时间(毫秒)。Y轴(垂直)描述了听觉神经对声音刺激的反应的“振幅”或强度/灵敏度，以毫伏(mv)表述。Layman Explanation of the WAVE1 Test: The WAVE 1 test is an additional measurement provided by the ABR test. The Wave 1 amplitude measures neuronal activity, including the synchronized firing of many auditory nerve fibers in the spiral ganglion cells. The (horizontal) X-axis measures the reaction time (milliseconds) to the sound stimulus (click). The Y-axis (vertical) describes the 'amplitude' or strength/sensitivity of the auditory nerve's response to the sound stimulus, expressed in millivolts (mv). 参考图8，示出由于声刺激产生的听觉诱发电位(以毫伏度量)，随时间(以毫秒度量)变化。在32kHz时，声刺激的声压级(SPL)为80dB。神经反应产生一个波周期，其中第一个波14和第三个波16通常被视为最重要的。在这一实验中，在经治疗小鼠(12)和纯合(10)和野生型(18)的未治疗小鼠中测量WAVE1振幅。经治疗小鼠(12)的WAVE1振幅显著大于未治疗小鼠(10和18)的振幅。解释-与未治疗小鼠(10,18)相比，经治疗小鼠(12)神经细胞以较高的强度和敏感性“放电”。Referring to Figure 8, the auditory evoked potential (measured in millivolts) due to acoustic stimulation is shown as a function of time (measured in milliseconds). The sound pressure level (SPL) of the acoustic stimulus was 80 dB at 32 kHz. The neural response produces a wave cycle, of which the first wave 14 and the third wave 16 are generally considered the most important. In this experiment, WAVE1 amplitude was measured in treated mice (12) and homozygous (10) and wild-type (18) untreated mice. The WAVE1 amplitude of the treated mice (12) was significantly greater than that of the untreated mice (10 and 18). Interpretation - The nerve cells of the treated mice (12) 'fired' with greater intensity and sensitivity than those of the untreated mice (10, 18). 虽然本文参考针对特定应用的说明性实施方案描述了本公开的原理，但应理解，本公开不限于此。能够访问本文所提供的教导的本领域的普通技术人员应认识到，额外的修改、应用、实施方案以及等效物的取代均属于本文所述的实施方案的范围。因此，本发明不应被视为受前述描述的限制。Although the principles of the present disclosure are described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for specific applications, it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. One of ordinary skill in the art who can access the teachings provided herein should recognize that additional modifications, applications, embodiments, and replacement of equivalents all fall within the scope of the embodiments described herein. Therefore, the present invention should not be considered to be limited by the foregoing description. 参考文献References 1.Shearer AE,Eppsteiner RW,Frees K,et al.Genetic variants in theperipheral auditory system significantly affect adult cochlear implantperformance.Hear Res.2017；348:138-142.doi:10.1016/J.HEARES.2017.02.008.1. Shearer AE, Eppsteiner RW, Frees K, et al. Genetic variants in the peripheral auditory system significantly affect adult cochlear implant performance. Hear Res. 2017; 348: 138-142. doi: 10.1016/J.HEARES.2017.02.008. 2.Shearer AE,Tejani VD,Brown CJ,et al.In Vivo Electrocochleography inHybrid Cochlear Implant Users Implicates TMPRSS3 in Spiral GanglionFunction.Sci Rep.2018；8(1):14165.doi:10.1038/s41598-018-32630-9.2. Shearer AE, Tejani VD, Brown CJ, et al. . 3.Fasquelle L,Scott HS,Lenoir M,et al.Tmprss3,a transmembrane serineprotease deficient in human DFNB8/10 deafness,is critical for cochlear haircell survival at the onset of hearing.J Biol Chem.2011；286(19):17383-17397.doi:10.1074/jbc.M 110.190652.3. Fasquelle L, Scott HS, Lenoir M, et al. Tmprss3, a transmembrane serineprotease deficient in human DFNB8/10 deafness, is critical for cochlear haircell survival at the onset of hearing. J Biol Chem. 2011; 286(19): 17383-17397.doi:10.1074/jbc.M 110.190652. 4.Professor Hubert Lowenheim,Personal Communication.4.Professor Hubert Lowenheim,Personal Communication. 5.N.J.Weegerink,M.Schraders,J.Oostrik et al.,“Genotype-phenotypecorrelation in DFNB8/10 families with TMPRSS3 mutations,”Journal of theAssociation for Research in Otolaryngology,vol.12,no.6,pp.753-766,2011.5. N.J.Weegerink, M.Schraders, J.Oostrik et al., 'Genotype-phenotypecorrelation in DFNB8/10 families with TMPRSS3 mutations,' Journal of the Association for Research in Otolaryngology, vol.12, no.6, pp.753- 766,2011. 6.J.Lee,J.I.Baek,J.Y.Choi,U.K.Kim,S.H.Lee,and K.Y.Lee,“Geneticanalysis of TMPRSS3 gene in the Korean population with autosomal recessivenonsyndromic hearing loss,”Gene,vol.532,no.2,pp.276-280,2013.6. J. Lee, J. I. Baek, J. Y. Choi, U. K. Kim, S. H. Lee, and K. Y. Lee, 'Genetic analysis of TMPRSS3 gene in the Korean population with autosomal recessivenonsyndromic hearing loss,' Gene, vol. 532, no. 2, pp. 276-280,2013. 7.J.Chung,S.M.Park,S.O.Chang et al.,“A novel mutation of TMPRSS3related to milder auditory phenotype in Korean postlingual deafness:apossible future implication for a personalized auditory rehabilitation,”J Molmed(Berl),vol.92,no.6,pp.651-663,2014.7.J.Chung, S.M.Park, S.O.Chang et al., 'A novel mutation of TMPRSS3 related to milder auditory phenotype in Korean postlingual deafness: possible future implication for a personalized auditory rehabilitation,' J Molmed (Berl), vol.92, no.6, pp.651-663, 2014. 8.M.Elbracht,J.Senderek,T.Eggermann et al.,“Autosomal recessivepostlingual hearing loss(DFNB8):compound heterozygosity for two novelTMPRSS3mutations in German siblings,”Journal of Medical Genetics,vol.44,no.6,article e81,2007.8. M.Elbracht, J.Senderek, T.Eggermann et al., 'Autosomal recessive postlingual hearing loss (DFNB8): compound heterozygosity for two novel TMPRSS3mutations in German siblings,' Journal of Medical Genetics, vol.44, no.6, article e81,2007. 9.Gao X,Huang SS,Yuan YY,et al.,“Identification of TMPRSS3 as aSignificant Contributor to Autosomal Recessive Hearing Loss in the ChinesePopulation,”Journal of Neural Plast.2017；2017:3192090.doi:10.1155/2017/3192090.Epub 2017 Jun 13.9. Gao .Epub 2017 Jun 13. 10.(Weegerink et al.,2011；J.Lee et al.,2013；J.Chung et al.,2014；M.Elbracht et al.,2007；Gao X et al.,2017).10. (Weegerink et al., 2011; J. Lee et al., 2013; J. Chung et al., 2014; M. Elbracht et al., 2007; Gao X et al., 2017).

### Claims

Claims (30) Translated from Chinese 1.一种用于治疗听力损失的系统，所述系统包含：1. A system for treating hearing loss, the system comprising: 耳蜗植入物；和Cochlear implants; and 基因治疗构建体，其中所述基因治疗构建体包含h-TMPRSS3的表达载体。A gene therapy construct, wherein the gene therapy construct comprises an expression vector for h-TMPRSS3. 2.如权利要求1所述的系统，其中所述表达载体还包含初始载体、增强子、启动子、bGHpoly(A)信号和闭合载体。2. The system of claim 1, wherein the expression vector further comprises an initial vector, an enhancer, a promoter, a bGH poly (A) signal and a closing vector. 3.如权利要求1所述的系统，其中所述表达载体是腺相关病毒载体或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式。3. The system of claim 1, wherein the expression vector is an adeno-associated viral vector or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. 4.如权利要求3所述的系统，其中如权利要求2所述的表达载体，其中所述腺相关病毒载体选自由AAV2、AAV2/Anc80、AAV5、AAV6、AAV6.2、AAV7、AAV8、AAV9、AAVrh8、AAVrh10、AAVrh39、AAVrh43、AAV1、AAV2、AAV3、AAV4、AAV5、AAV6、AAV7、AAV8、Anc80或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式组成的组。4. The system of claim 3, wherein the expression vector of claim 2, wherein the adeno-associated viral vector is selected from the group consisting of AAV2, AAV2/Anc80, AAV5, AAV6, AAV6.2, AAV7, AAV8, AAV9, AAVrh8, AAVrh10, AAVrh39, AAVrh43, AAV1, AAV2, AAV3, AAV4, AAV5, AAV6, AAV7, AAV8, Anc80 or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. 5.如权利要求1所述的系统，其中所述启动子选自由以下组成的组：TMPRSS3启动子、Myo7a启动子、人巨细胞病毒(HCMV)启动子、巨细胞病毒/鸡β-肌动蛋白(CBA)启动子和Pou4f3启动子。5. The system of claim 1, wherein the promoter is selected from the group consisting of: TMPRSS3 promoter, Myo7a promoter, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) promoter, cytomegalovirus/chicken β-actin (CBA) promoter, and Pou4f3 promoter. 6.如权利要求1所述的系统，其中所述增强子选自由以下组成的组：TMPRSS3增强子和人巨细胞病毒(HCMV)增强子。6. The system of claim 1, wherein the enhancer is selected from the group consisting of: a TMPRSS3 enhancer and a human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) enhancer. 7.如权利要求1所述的系统，其中所述耳蜗植入物包括：7. The system of claim 1, wherein the cochlear implant comprises: 麦克风，所述麦克风经配置以接收声音；a microphone configured to receive sound; 语音处理器，所述语音处理器经配置以选择和/或安排由所述麦克风拾取的声音；a speech processor configured to select and/or arrange sounds picked up by the microphone; 发射器和接收器/刺激器，其中所述发射器和所述接收器/刺激器经配置以接收来自所述语音处理器的信号并将其转换为电脉冲；和a transmitter and a receiver/stimulator, wherein the transmitter and the receiver/stimulator are configured to receive signals from the speech processor and convert them into electrical pulses; and 电极。electrode. 8.一种用于治疗或预防听力损失的方法中的药物组合物，所述组合物包含表达载体，所述表达载体包含初始载体、增强子、启动子、bGH poly(A)信号和闭合载体。8. A pharmaceutical composition for use in a method for treating or preventing hearing loss, the composition comprising an expression vector comprising an initial vector, an enhancer, a promoter, a bGH poly (A) signal and a closing vector. 9.如权利要求8所述的药物组合物，其中所述表达载体是腺相关病毒载体或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式。9. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 8, wherein the expression vector is an adeno-associated viral vector or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. 10.如权利要求9所述的药物组合物，其中所述腺相关病毒载体选自由AAV2、AAV2/Anc80、AAV5、AAV6、AAV6.2、AAV7、AAV8、AAV9、AAVrh8、AAVrh10、AAVrh39、AAVrh43、AAV1、AAV2、AAV3、AAV4、AAV5、AAV6、AAV7、AAV8、Anc80或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式组成的组。10. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 9, wherein the adeno-associated viral vector is selected from the group consisting of AAV2, AAV2/Anc80, AAV5, AAV6, AAV6.2, AAV7, AAV8, AAV9, AAVrh8, AAVrh10, AAVrh39, AAVrh43, AAV1, AAV2, AAV3, AAV4, AAV5, AAV6, AAV7, AAV8, Anc80, or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. 11.如权利要求8所述的药物组合物，其中所述启动子选自由以下组成的组：TMPRSS3启动子、Myo7a启动子、人巨细胞病毒(HCMV)启动子、巨细胞病毒/鸡β-肌动蛋白(CBA)启动子和Pou4f3启动子。11. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 8, wherein the promoter is selected from the group consisting of: TMPRSS3 promoter, Myo7a promoter, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) promoter, cytomegalovirus/chicken β-actin (CBA) promoter, and Pou4f3 promoter. 12.如权利要求8所述的药物组合物，其中所述增强子选自由以下组成的组：TMPRSS3增强子和人巨细胞病毒(HCMV)增强子。12. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 8, wherein the enhancer is selected from the group consisting of a TMPRSS3 enhancer and a human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) enhancer. 13.一种经用于治疗或预防听力损失的表达转染的细胞，所述表达载体包含初始载体、增强子、启动子、bGH poly(A)信号和闭合载体。13. A cell transfected with an expression vector for treating or preventing hearing loss, the expression vector comprising an initial vector, an enhancer, a promoter, a bGH poly(A) signal and a closing vector. 14.如权利要求13所述的细胞，其中所述表达载体是腺相关病毒载体或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式。14. The cell of claim 13, wherein the expression vector is an adeno-associated viral vector or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. 15.如权利要求14所述的细胞，其中所述腺相关病毒载体选自由AAV2、AAV2/Anc80、AAV5、AAV6、AAV6.2、AAV7、AAV8、AAV9、AAVrh8、AAVrh10、AAVrh39、AAVrh43、AAV1、AAV2、AAV3、AAV4、AAV5、AAV6、AAV7、AAV8、Anc80或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式组成的组。15. The cell of claim 14, wherein the adeno-associated viral vector is selected from the group consisting of AAV2, AAV2/Anc80, AAV5, AAV6, AAV6.2, AAV7, AAV8, AAV9, AAVrh8, AAVrh10, AAVrh39, AAVrh43, AAV1, AAV2, AAV3, AAV4, AAV5, AAV6, AAV7, AAV8, Anc80, or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. 16.如权利要求13所述的细胞，其中所述启动子选自由以下组成的组：TMPRSS3启动子、Myo7a启动子、人巨细胞病毒(HCMV)启动子、巨细胞病毒/鸡β-肌动蛋白(CBA)启动子和Pou4f3启动子。16. The cell of claim 13, wherein the promoter is selected from the group consisting of a TMPRSS3 promoter, a Myo7a promoter, a human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) promoter, a cytomegalovirus/chicken β-actin (CBA) promoter, and a Pou4f3 promoter. 17.如权利要求13所述的细胞，其中所述细胞是干细胞。17. The cell of claim 13, wherein the cell is a stem cell. 18.如权利要求17所述的细胞，其中所述干细胞是诱导性多能干细胞。18. The cell of claim 17, wherein the stem cell is an induced pluripotent stem cell. 19.一种用于治疗或预防有需要的受试者的听力损失的方法，所述方法包括以下步骤：19. A method for treating or preventing hearing loss in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising the steps of: 向所述受试者施用有效量的表达载体，所述表达载体包含初始载体、增强子、启动子、bGH poly(A)信号和闭合载体；和administering to the subject an effective amount of an expression vector comprising an initial vector, an enhancer, a promoter, a bGH poly(A) signal, and a closing vector; and 在所述受试者中植入耳蜗植入物。A cochlear implant is implanted in the subject. 20.如权利要求19所述的方法，其中所述表达载体的所述施用是在所述耳蜗植入物的所述植入之前执行的。20. The method of claim 19, wherein said administering of said expression vector is performed prior to said implantation of said cochlear implant. 21.如权利要求19所述的方法，其中所述表达载体的所述施用是在所述耳蜗植入物的所述植入之后执行的。21. The method of claim 19, wherein said administering of said expression vector is performed after said implantation of said cochlear implant. 22.如权利要求19所述的方法，其中所述表达载体和所述耳蜗植入物的所述施用是同时执行的。22. The method of claim 19, wherein said administering of said expression vector and said cochlear implant is performed simultaneously. 23.如权利要求19所述的方法，其中所述表达载体是腺相关病毒载体或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式。23. The method of claim 19, wherein the expression vector is an adeno-associated viral vector or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. 24.如权利要求23所述的方法，其中所述腺相关病毒载体选自由AAV2、AAV2/Anc80、AAV5、AAV6、AAV6.2、AAV7、AAV8、AAV9、AAVrh8、AAVrh10、AAVrh39、AAVrh43、AAV1、AAV2、AAV3、AAV4、AAV5、AAV6、AAV7、AAV8、Anc80或腺相关病毒载体血清型的合成形式组成的组。24. The method of claim 23, wherein the adeno-associated viral vector is selected from the group consisting of AAV2, AAV2/Anc80, AAV5, AAV6, AAV6.2, AAV7, AAV8, AAV9, AAVrh8, AAVrh10, AAVrh39, AAVrh43, AAV1, AAV2, AAV3, AAV4, AAV5, AAV6, AAV7, AAV8, Anc80, or a synthetic form of an adeno-associated viral vector serotype. 25.如权利要求19所述的方法，其中所述启动子选自由以下组成的组：TMPRSS3启动子、Myo7a启动子、人巨细胞病毒(HCMV)启动子、巨细胞病毒/鸡β-肌动蛋白(CBA)启动子和Pou4f3启动子。25. The method of claim 19, wherein the promoter is selected from the group consisting of: TMPRSS3 promoter, Myo7a promoter, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) promoter, cytomegalovirus/chicken beta-actin (CBA) promoter, and Pou4f3 promoter. 26.如权利要求19所述的方法，其中所述表达载体通过注射施用至所述受试者的内耳中。26. The method of claim 19, wherein the expression vector is administered into the inner ear of the subject by injection. 27.如权利要求26所述的方法，其中所述注射方法选自由耳蜗底转、圆窗膜、内淋巴囊、蜗管、管造口术、通过所述内淋巴囊进入蜗管或其任何组合组成的组。27. The method of claim 26, wherein the injection method is selected from the group consisting of the basal turn of the cochlea, the round window membrane, the endolymphatic sac, the cochlear duct, canalostomy, into the cochlear duct through the endolymphatic sac, or any combination thereof. 28.如权利要求19所述的方法，其中所述受试者具有一种或多种与听力损失相关的遗传风险因素。28. The method of claim 19, wherein the subject has one or more genetic risk factors associated with hearing loss. 29.如权利要求28所述的方法，其中所述遗传风险因素之一选自由所述TMPRSS3基因的突变或所述LOXHD1基因的突变组成的组。29. The method of claim 28, wherein one of the genetic risk factors is selected from the group consisting of a mutation in the TMPRSS3 gene or a mutation in the LOXHD1 gene. 30.如权利要求28所述的方法，其中所述受试者未表现出听力损失的任何临床指标。30. The method of claim 28, wherein the subject does not exhibit any clinical indicators of hearing loss.
