## Patent Reference

- Title: Method and system for newborn screening for genetic diseases by whole genome sequencing
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/WO2023014816A1/en

### Abstract

Abstract The present disclosure provides a method and system for testing newborns for genetic diseases, diagnoses and implementing optimal treatments. The invention provides for rapid detection of genetic disease in newborns, as well as identification of available therapeutic interventions that may be rapidly implemented to prevent death or adverse complications characterized by the genetic disease.

### Description

Description METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR NEWBORN SCREENING FOR GENETIC DISEASES BY WHOLE GENOME SEQUENCING CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S) [0001] This application claims benefit of priority under 35 U.S. C. § 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 63/229,460, filed August 4, 2021. The disclosure of the prior application is considered part of and is incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this application. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION FIELD OF THE INVENTION [0002] The invention relates generally to early targeted or precision treatment of genetic disease and more specifically to a method and system for screening all newborns for all genetic diseases that either have an effective treatment or that are amenable to development of a genetic therapy in order to implement optimal, etiology-informed management at or before onset of symptoms. BACKGROUND INFORMATION [0003] Newborn screening (NBS) is performed worldwide in —140 million newborns annually to identify severe congenital disorders and initiate treatments at or before onset of symptoms. While NBS can greatly improve health outcomes, the number of genetic disorders screened has not kept pace with genomic or therapeutic innovation. Between 2006 and 2022, the number of core disorders that were recommended for NBS of dried blood spots (DBS) in the United States - the Recommended Uniform Screening Panel (RUSP) - increased from 27 to 35, and the number of affected infants identified increased from 6,439 to 6,466. However, there are -7,200 known genetic diseases and hundreds of new targeted treatments that have been approved or are in clinical trials. Over the past decade, rapid WGS (rWGS®) has developed into an effective diagnostic test (Dx-rWGS®) for almost all heritable diseases and is gaining acceptance as a first-tier test for critically ill newborns with suspected genetic diseases. rWGS® is attractive for comprehensive NBS since it concomitantly examines almost all genetic diseases with similar time to result as biochemical NBS of DBS by mass spectrometry (NBS-MS). [0004] More advanced methods are needed for automated screening of all newborns for all rare genetic diseases that either have an effective treatment or that are amenable to development of a genetic therapy in order to implement optimal, etiology-informed management at or before onset of symptoms, as described herein. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION [0005] The present invention provides a method and autonomous system for conducting genetic analysis of all rare genetic diseases that either have an effective treatment or that are amenable to development of a genetic therapy. The invention provides for rapid screening of genetic disease in all newborns. [0006] Accordingly, in one embodiment the invention provides a method for conducting genetic analysis. The method includes: a) determining a comprehensive set of genetic diseases that either have an effective treatment or that are amenable to development of a genetic therapy in a timeframe relevant to disease progression; b) determining a set of genetic variants that are known to be pathogenic or likely pathogenic in the genes that map to that set of genetic diseases; c) determining a subset of those genetic variants that have population allele frequencies (or diplotype allele frequencies) that are less than the incidence of the corresponding genetic diseases; d) determining management guidelines regarding effective treatments or novel genetic therapy candidates for the set of diseases; e) performing genetic sequencing of a DNA sample from the subject; f) determining genetic variants of the DNA; g) analyzing the results of (c) and (f) to generate a list of positive screening results; h) recalculating the population allele frequencies (or diplotype allele frequencies) to include results of (f); i) confirmatory testing of the results of (g) to determine whether they are true or false positives; j) if the results of (i) are true positives, implementing the appropriate management guidelines of (d); and k) updating the variant pathogenicity assertions of (b) to include results of (i). [0007] In some aspects, the method further includes: 1) determining the availability of confirmatory tests for the variants of (c). [0008] In aspects, the method further includes identifying any clinical phenotypes of the subject prior (i) confirmatory testing by diagnostic interpretation of the positive screening results of (g). In certain aspects, translating the clinical phenotypes into a standardized vocabulary is performed by extraction of phenotypes from the electronic medical record by clinical natural language processing (CNLP) and then translation into one or more standardized vocabularies. In some aspects, genetic sequencing includes rWGS®, rapid whole exome sequencing (rWES), or rapid gene panel sequencing. [0009] The present invention further provides a method and autonomous system for conducting genetic analysis at population scale. The invention provides newborn screening for early diagnosis and treatment of genetic disease. [0010] In one embodiment the invention provides a method for conducting genetic analysis. The method includes: a) determining a comprehensive set of genetic diseases; b) identifying genetic diseases of the comprehensive set that are severe and have childhood onset; c) determining efficacy and quality of evidence of efficacy of a comprehensive set of available therapeutic interventions for the genetic disease identified in (b); d) determining a comprehensive set of genes associated with genetic diseases that have at least one available therapeutic intervention; e) determining a comprehensive set of pathogenic or likely pathogenic genetic variants of the comprehensive set of genes determined in (d); f) determining population frequency of the genetic variants; g) for recessive genetic diseases of the genetic variants, determining which recessive genetic diseases occur in cis in populations; h) analyzing results of (e), (f) and (g) to generate a revised list of pathogenic or likely pathogenic genetic variants; i) performing genetic sequencing of a genomic DNA sample from a subject; j) determining genetic variant diplotypes of the genomic DNA; k) comparing the genetic variant diplotypes with the results of (h) to determine whether the subject screens positive for a genetic disease for which an effective treatment currently exists or can be developed; and l) generating a report including results of any of (a)-(k). [0011] In another embodiment the method includes: a) determining a comprehensive set of disease-causing genes; b) determining a comprehensive set of pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants in disease-causing genes; c) determining the subset of those variants for which an effective genetic therapy can be developed; d) determining the efficacy and/or quality of evidence of efficacy of available treatments for the set of disease-causing genes; e) analyzing the results of (b), (c) and (d) to generate a list of pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants in disease-causing genes for which an effective therapy is available or are amenable to development of an effective genetic therapy; f) performing genetic sequencing of a genomic DNA sample from a subject; g) determining genetic variant diplotypes of the genomic DNA; h) comparing the genetic variant diplotypes of the subject with the results of (b) and (c) to determine whether the subject has a genetic disease for which an effective treatment currently exists or can be developed; and i) generating a report including results of any of (a)-(h). [0012] In another embodiment, the invention provides a system for performing a method of the invention. The system includes a controller having at least one processor and non- transitory memory. The controller is configured to perform one or more of the processes of the method as described herein. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS [0013] Figures 1A-1B depicts flow diagrams of the diagnosis of genetic diseases by standard and rapid genome sequencing. Figure 1A is a flow diagram of the diagnosis of genetic diseases. Figure IB is a flow diagram of the diagnosis of genetic diseases. [0014] Figures 2A-2B depicts diagrams showing clinical natural language processing can extract a more detailed phenome than manual electronic health record (EHR) review or Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man™ (OMIM™) clinical synopsis. Figure 2A is a schematic diagram. Figure 2B is a schematic diagram. [0015] Figures 3A-3H depicts a comparison of observed and expected phenotypic features of children with suspected genetic diseases. Figure 3A is a graphical diagram depicting data. Figure 3B is a graphical diagram depicting data. Figure 3C is a graphical diagram depicting data. Figure 3D is a Venn diagram depicting data. Figure 3E is a graphical diagram depicting data. Figure 3F is a graphical diagram depicting data. Figure 3G is a graphical diagram depicting data. Figure 3H is a Venn diagram depicting data. [0016] Figure 4 is a Venn diagram showing overlap of observed and expected patient phenotypic features in 95 children diagnosed with 97 genetic diseases. [0017] Figures 5A-5B are a series of graphs depicting precision, recall, and Fl -score of phenotypic features identified manually, by CNLP, and OMIM™. Figure 5A is a series of graphical diagrams depicting data. Figure 5B is a series of graphical diagrams depicting data. [0018] Figure 6 is a flow diagram illustrating the software components of the autonomous system and methodology for provisional diagnosis of genetic diseases by rapid genome sequencing in one aspect of the invention. [0019] Figure 7 is a flow diagram illustrating the software components of the autonomous system and methodology for provisional diagnosis of genetic diseases by rapid genome sequencing in one aspect of the invention. [0020] Figures 8A-8B are flow diagrams of the technological components of a 13.5-hour system for automated diagnosis and virtual acute management guidance of genetic diseases by rWGS® in an aspect of the invention. Figure 8A is a flow diagram showing the order and duration of laboratory steps and technologies. Figure 8B is a flow diagram showing the information flow from order placement in the EHR to return of diagnostic results together with specific management guidance for that genetic disease. [0021] Figure 9 is a flow diagram illustrating the development of Genome-To-Treatment (GTRXSM), a virtual system for acute management guidance for rare genetic diseases. [0022] Figures 10A-10B illustrates GTRxSM disease, gene, and literature filtering, and final content. Figure 10A is a modified PRISMA flowchart showing filtering steps and summarizing results of review of 563 unique disease-gene dyads herein. Figure 10B is a diagram showing genetic disease types and disease genes featured in the first 100 GTRxSM genes reviewed herein. [0023] Figures HA- HD depicts data derived using the system and methodology of the present invention. Figure HA shows clinical timeline of a patient. Figure 11B shows diagnostic timeline of a patient. Figure 11C shows clinical timeline of a patient. Figure 1 ID shows diagnostic timeline of a patient. [0024] Figure 12 is a graphical plot depicting data pertaining to genetic sequencing costs. [0025] Figure 13 is a flowchart showing the modified Delphi technique for ongoing selection of disorders for NBS-rWGS® after they have been included in the GTRxSM virtual management guidance system GTRxSM. [0026] Figures 14A-14C show a comparison of the workflow for Dx-rWGS®. Figure 14A is a comparison for NBS-rWGS®. Figure 14B is a comparison for a secondary use of data generated by NBS-rWGS®. Figure 14C illustrates that the interpretation burden of NBS- rWGS® is approximately 1,000-fold less than that of Dx-rWGS®. The light blue shading indicates the activities occurring in places of care for newborns or older children, while the darker blue sharing indicates activities occurring in clinical laboratories. The dashed green arrows @and @ in NBS-rWGS® indicate feedback loops. Abbreviations: dB, database; EDTA, ethylene diamine tetra-acetic acid; ICU, intensive care unit; EHR, electronic health record; CLIA, clinical laboratory improvements act; GEM™ Al, a genome interpretation tool that employs artificial intelligence15; GTRxSM, Genome-to-Treatment virtual management guidance system. [0027] Figures 15A-15B are funnel plots. Figure 15A shows reduction in 2,982 positive individuals in 73 positive NBS-rWGS® genes among 454,707 UK Biobank participants by root cause analysis. Figure 15B shows the increase in retrospective NBS-rWGS® positives among 4,376 children and their parents. Abbreviations: LB, likely benign; B, benign; AR, autosomal recessive; AD, autosomal dominant; ICD, International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems; dB, database; UKBB, United Kingdom Biobank. [0028] Figures 16A-16C depict the impact of training on the sensitivity and specificity of NBS-MS and NBS-rWGS®. Figure 16A illustrates use of postanalytical tools to reduce false positives from NBS-MS of 48 disorders from 454 to 41, improving specificity (true negative rate) from 99.7% to 99.98%. Of note, false positives excluded newborns with birth weight <1.8 kg and DBS obtained at <24 hours or >7 days. Figure 16B illustrates use of root cause analysis to reduce NBS-false positives from NBS-rWGS® of 388 disorders from 2,982 to 1,214, improving specificity from 99.3% to 99.7%. Figure 16C shows that addition ofpositive individuals by GEM™ and inclusion of ClinVar™ 3712323 increased NBS-rWGS® true positives from 65 to 104, improving sensitivity from 59.6% to 87%. Of note, these results included NBS-rWGS® of newborns with birth weight <1.8 kg and DBS obtained at >7 days. [0029] Figure 17 is a visualization of paired sequence reads on a 120 nt region of Chr 1 demonstrating that ClinVar™ variants 280113 (PKLR g. 155,294,726G>T, p.Glu241Ter), shown in green, and 1163645 PKLR g.15529462 Idel, p.Val276fs), shown as a black hash, occurred in the same read in a positive UKBB subject (boxes). DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION [0030] The present invention is based on an innovative computational method and platform for genomic analysis. [0031] Herein the inventors describe an innovative, scalable solution to Scylla and Charybdis of diagnostic and therapeutic odysseys in rapidly progressive childhood genetic diseases. Firstly, the inventors describe automated platform for rWGS® in 13.5 hours that allows even the most rapidly progressive genetic diseases to be therapeutically tractable. Secondly, rather than ending rWGS® with static molecular results, the inventors describe methods for dynamic reports that extend to integrated information resources and optimized, acute management guidance designed for front-line, intensive care physicians. [0032] Accordingly, the disclosure describes scalable, feedback-informed methods for newborn screening, diagnosis, and virtual, acute management guidance for 388 diseases, and reports analytic performance and clinical utility in large retrospective datasets. [0033] As discussed in detail in the Examples, by informing timely targeted treatments, rapid genetic or genomic sequencing can improve the outcomes of seriously ill children with genetic diseases, particularly infants in neonatal and pediatric intensive care units (ICUs). The need for highly qualified professionals to decipher results, however, precludes widespread implementation. [0034] In various aspects, the present disclosure provides a platform for population-scale, provisional diagnosis of genetic diseases with automated phenotyping and interpretation. Many rare genetic diseases with effective treatments progress to severe morbidity or mortality if untreated immediately. Front-line physicians are often unfamiliar with treatments for these diseases. Hence rapid molecular diagnosis may be insufficient to improve outcomes. The inventors describe Genome-to-Treatment (GTRxSM), an automated system for genetic disease diagnosis and acute management support. Diagnosis was achieved in 13.5 hours by sequencing library preparation directly from blood, accelerated whole genome sequencing (WGS), hyperthreaded informatic analysis, natural language processing of electronic health records and automated interpretation. 563 severe, childhood-onset, genetic diseases with effective treatments were identified by literature review, clinician nomination and WGS experience. Specific treatments, including drugs, devices, diets, and surgeries, were identified for each by internet and literature searches, and manually curated. Five clinical geneticists adjudicated the indications, contraindications, efficacy, and evidence-of-efficacy of each treatment in each disorder in the context of a newly diagnosed, ill child in an intensive care unit (ICU). After discussion, they agreed upon 189 of the first 190 treatments. The inventors integrated 10 genetic disease information resources, and electronically linked them and the adjudicated treatments to automated diagnostic reports (rbsapp.net: 8082). The 13.5- hour system had superior analytic performance for single nucleotide, insertion-deletion, structural and copy number variants. GTRxSM provided correct diagnoses and management guidance in four retrospective patients. Prospectively, an infant with encephalopathy was diagnosed in 13.5 hours, enabling timely institution of effective treatment. GTRxSM facilitates prompt diagnosis and implementation of optimized, acute treatment for patients with rapidly progressive genetic diseases, particularly in ICUs staffed by front-line physicians. [0035] In various embodiments, the disclosure describes adaptation of Dx-rWGS® methods for comprehensive NBS (NBS-rWGS®). [0036] Before the present compositions and methods are described, it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular methods and experimental conditions described, as such compositions, methods, and conditions may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for purposes of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting, since the scope of the present invention will be limited only in the appended claims. [0037] As used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms “a”, “an”, and “the” include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, references to “the method” includes one or more methods, and/or steps of the type described herein which will become apparent to those persons skilled in the art upon reading this disclosure and so forth. [0038] Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the invention, the preferred methods and materials are now described. [0039] An initial, general solution to the problem of rapidly progressive childhood genetic diseases was rapid diagnostic WGS. Rapid WGS mitigated the problem of unknown etiology, wherein it was impossible to make a molecular diagnosis for most genetic diseases during hospitalization. Since then, rapid WGS has increased in speed, diagnostic performance, and scalability. Rapid WGS now allows concomitant evaluation of almost all differential diagnoses - which may number over 1,000 genetic disorders in a single patient. Rapid WGS has started to be implemented nationally for inpatient diagnosis of genetic disease in England, Australia, and Wales and in several US states. [0040] As is often true of new technologies, rapid WGS removed the rare disease diagnostic odyssey bottleneck, but exposed another downstream bottleneck - the therapeutic odyssey that results in missed opportunity for clinical. Clinical trials of rapid WGS have repeatedly shown gaps between expected and observed clinical utility. Several factors contribute to missed clinical utility. Firstly, exponential advances in genomics have outpaced medical education. Many healthcare providers lack adequate genomic literacy to practice genomic medicine unaided. Neonatologists, intensivists, and hospitalists are often dependent upon other subspecialists, particularly medical geneticists, for translation of rapid WGS results into treatment recommendations. In quaternary hospitals, this leads to treatment delays. In frontline settings, however, it can greatly limit the clinical utility of rapid WGS. Secondly, many genetic diseases were either discovered only recently, or are ultra-rare, and therefore evidence-based treatment guidelines have not yet been developed. Moreover, effective management strategies are often interspersed across the literature in the form of case reports, case series or small cohort studies. Information resources pertaining to management of rare genetic diseases are incomplete, lack interoperability, and are typically not targeted toward acute ICU treatment or front-line physicians. Upon receipt of a rapid WGS-based diagnosis, these factors put an unsupportable burden on front-line physicians to search and synthesize the available evidence for rare genetic diseases, many of which they may have never encountered previously. Therapeutic unfamiliarity will continue to increase as new diseases and new effective, n-of-few, genetic therapies proliferate. Thirdly, failure to order rapid WGS as a first-tier test frequently leads to return of results around time of hospital discharge, when management plans have been solidified or, for rapidly progressive diseases, too late to have full clinical utility. [0041] While historically it took an average of twelve years for drug development and approval , effective genetic therapies for genetic diseases can be developed and receive expanded-access investigational clinical protocol authorization by the Food and Drug Administration in as little as one year (such as milasen for Batten disease); Thus, newborn screening by WGS should consider not only those conditions for which current treatments exist, but also conditions for which novel genetic therapies can be developed in a timeframe that is pertinent to disease progression. 2. Genetic therapies can delay progression and death in patients with fatal genetic diseases (such as onasemnogene abeparvovec for the treatment of symptomatic patients with spinal muscular atrophy and eteplirsen for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. However, these genetic therapies do not reverse damage to organs. Instead, they prevent disease progression. Thus, it is necessary to identify these conditions at birth, rather than at onset of symptoms in order to have maximal efficacy. 3. While we now know the cause of more than 6, 100 genetic diseases, for most genomic diagnoses, frontline physicians will never have encountered a patient with that disorder, indicating the need to provide management guidance as part of a system of newborn screening by WGS. 4. While effective treatments exist for -600 genetic diseases, for the vast majority the evidence of effectiveness is limited to case reports and case series, preventing ready access to such knowledge by frontline physicians, further indicating the need to provide management guidance as part of a system of newborn screening by WGS. 5. Traditional, population newborn screening has been highly effective but is currently limited to 35 core conditions on the Advisory Committee on Heritable Disorders in Newborns and Children’s Recommended Uniform Screening Panel. As a result, there remain hundreds of genetic diseases with effective treatments that are not currently screened for. 6. The cost of research-quality human genome sequencing has dropped to $689 and is projected to be $100 in a few years. 7. California Newborn screening currently costs $129 per subject, and therefore genome sequencing is approaching the cost effectiveness needed for newborn screening. 8. Genome sequencing is now possible in 13.5 hours, a turnaround time that is sufficient for newborn screening; 9. Genome sequence analysis can be completely automated and therefore scaled to populations, as needed for newborn screening of approximately 4 million US births per year. 10. Genome sequencing, analysis and virtual treatment guidance can be completely automated, which is necessary for these methods to be scalable to populations. [0042] Traditional newborn screening is focused on screening for a small number of individual diseases for which strong evidence supports the effectiveness of currently available treatments. Previous attempts to convert newborn screening to whole exome sequencing have also focused on screening for the same types of diseases. They have failed because of insufficient sensitivity relative to traditional newborn screening. For example, newborn screening of 48 disorders by whole exome sequencing had a sensitivity of 88% compared to 99.0% for traditional newborn screening. In another example, newborn screening by whole exome sequencing had a sensitivity of 88% in children with metabolic disorders and 18% in children with hearing loss. The system of newborn screening by WGS disclosed herein instead focuses on screening all -600 genetic diseases with effective treatments and all genetic diseases for which novel genetic therapies can be developed in a timeframe that is pertinent to disease progression. It should be noted that novel genetic therapies are often designed based not on the disorder pathology but rather on the class of genetic variant that causes the condition. Thus, patients with any disorder that is caused by variants that create premature stop codons may potentially be effectively treated with antisense allele specific oligonucleotide therapies that alter exon skipping. Newborn screening by WGS if focused on tens of thousands of variant diplotypes that are known to be pathogenic or known and likely to be pathogenic (defined by a subset of the American College of Medical Genetics criteria) that map to all -600 genetic diseases with effective treatments and all genetic diseases for which novel genetic therapies can be developed in a timeframe that is pertinent to disease progression. Thus, newborn screening by WGS achieves cost effectiveness and clinical utility in aggregate across tens of thousands of variants and hundreds screened conditions, rather than on a condition-by-condition basis. Insensitivity for any single screened variant or condition (“missing” true positives) is acceptable provided the aggregate clinical utility and cost effectiveness across all conditions and variants is acceptable. This is because the incremental cost of adding a new condition or variant to newborn screening by WGS is negligible, whereas in traditional newborn screening it was substantial. [0043] Genome sequencing results in identification of 6 million variants per subject, most of which do not cause disease. Previous attempts to convert newborn screening to whole exome sequencing have utilized conventional interpretation methods that were frustrated by the need for many hours of interpretation and many false positives (low precision). For example, newborn screening of 48 disorders by whole exome sequencing had specificity of 98.4%, compared to 99.8% for traditional newborn screening. For population newborn screening to be effective it must have an extremely low rate of false positives (high precision). By focusing on tens of thousands of variant diplotypes that are known to be pathogenic or known and likely to be pathogenic (defined by a subset of the American College of Medical Genetics criteria), and that have population frequencies that are less than that of the condition being tested for, newborn screening by WGS system achieves the requisite precision for population implementation. [0044] Conventional diagnostic WGS takes skilled operators at least six hours to analyze and interpret manually; the methods for newborns screening by WGS disclosed herein take less than one minute to execute computationally with no human effort. [0045] Traditional newborn screening is designed for a rather static set of disorders, with at best annual changes in screened disorders, decided upon by a federal committee. Likewise, previous attempts to convert newborn screening to whole exome sequencing and panel tests have been static. In addition, neither traditional screening nor previous attempts to convert newborn screening to whole exome sequencing and panel tests include disorders for which novel genetic therapies could be developed in a meaningful timeframe. The methods of newborn screening by WGS disclosed herein are highly dynamic - conditions and variants can be added or subtracted even nightly. [0046] Previous attempts to convert newborn screening to whole exome sequencing or panel tests used static variant pathogenicity assertions and were not designed to be self-learning. With few exceptions, sensitivity and specificity were not improved based on learning from tested subjects. The methods of newborn screening by WGS disclosed herein were designed to be self-learning: Each individual patient’s set of variants are uploaded into a master database of variants and the allele frequency of each variant in the entire tested population is recalculated nightly. Thus, likely false positive variants that occur more frequently in the population than the incidence of the corresponding genetic disease can be identified and blocked from consideration in subsequent patients tested. Likewise, upon confirmatory testing, true positive and false positive results are uploaded into the master database and the pathogenicity assertion is updated for all subsequent patients tested. Self-learning cannot be dynamically retrofitted to a conventional, dense array database in which each patient adds 6 billion null values and six million non-null values. Instead, a non-obvious, sparse array database solution is needed that features exceptionally fast read/write capability and that is designed to support self-learning with regard to variant frequency and confirmatory test results. The database solution disclosed herein features sparse array representation of only the six million non-null WGS variants and of the -30,000 variants that are screened for that is optimized for exceptionally fast read/write capability and designed to support self-learning with regard to variant frequency and confirmatory test results on a per subject basis. The attributes of data storage managers sufficient for screening of millions of newborns per year for hundreds of genetic diseases by WGS. [0047] Previous attempts to convert newborn screening to whole exome sequencing or panel tests were predicated upon selection of disorders that were “actionable,” meaning likely to result in a change in clinical management of the subject. As noted above, effective management strategies for individual genetic diseases are often interspersed across the literature in the form of case reports, case series or small cohort studies. It is thus non-obvious which disorders should be included in newborn screening by WGS. In the methods disclosed herein, inclusion of disorders and variants were predicated on expert curation of the subset of those variants for which an effective genetic therapy can be developed and the efficacy and/or quality of evidence of efficacy of available treatments for the set of disease-causing genes. [0048] METHODS [0049] In one embodiment, the invention provides a method for conducting genetic analysis at population scale for newborns. The invention provides for early diagnosis and treatment of genetic disease, for example in a fetus, neonate or infant. [0050] In some aspects, the method includes: a) determining a comprehensive set of genetic diseases; b) identifying genetic diseases of the comprehensive set that are severe and have childhood onset; c) determining efficacy and quality of evidence of efficacy of a comprehensive set of available therapeutic interventions for the genetic disease identified in (b); d) determining a comprehensive set of genes associated with genetic diseases that have at least one available therapeutic intervention; e) determining a comprehensive set of pathogenic or likely pathogenic genetic variants of the comprehensive set of genes determined in (d); f) determining population frequency of the genetic variants; g) for recessive genetic diseases of the genetic variants, determining which recessive genetic diseases occur in cis in populations; h) analyzing results of (e), (f) and (g) to generate a revised list of pathogenic or likely pathogenic genetic variants; i) performing genetic sequencing of a genomic DNA sample from a subject; j) determining genetic variant diplotypes of the genomic DNA; k) comparing the genetic variant diplotypes with the results of (h) to determine whether the subject screens positive for a genetic disease for which an effective treatment currently exists or can be developed; and l) generating a report including results of any of (a)-(k). [0051] In some aspects, the method includes: a) determining a comprehensive set of disease-causing genes; b) determining a comprehensive set of pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants in disease-causing genes; c) determining the subset of those variants for which an effective genetic therapy can be developed; d) determining the efficacy and/or quality of evidence of efficacy of available treatments for the set of disease-causing genes; e) analyzing the results of (b), (c) and (d) to generate a list of pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants in disease-causing genes for which an effective therapy is available or are amenable to development of an effective genetic therapy; f) performing genetic sequencing of a genomic DNA sample from a subject; g) determining genetic variant diplotypes of the genomic DNA; h) comparing the genetic variant diplotypes of the subject with the results of (b) and (c) to determine whether the subject has a genetic disease for which an effective treatment currently exists or can be developed; and i) generating a report including results of any of (a)-(h). [0052] In one embodiment the invention provides a method for conducting genetic analysis. The analysis may be utilized to diagnose a disease or disorder, in particular a rare genetic disease. The method can also be utilized to rule out a genetic disease. The method of the invention is particularly useful in detecting and/or diagnosing a genetic disease in a subject that is less than 5 years old, such as an infant, neonate or fetus. [0053] In some aspects, the method includes: a) determining a phenome of a subject from an electronic medical record (EMR), wherein the phenome includes a plurality of clinical phenotypes extracted from the EMR; b) translating the clinical phenotypes into standardized vocabulary or vocabularies; c) generating a first list of potential differential diagnoses of the subject; d) performing genetic sequencing of a DNA sample from the subject; e) determining genetic variants of the DNA; f) analyzing the results of (c) and (e) to generate a second list of potential differential diagnoses of the subject, the second list being rank ordered; g) determining the efficacy and/or quality of evidence of efficacy of available treatments for the second list of potential differential diagnoses; h) analyzing the results of (f) and (g) to generate a third list of potential differential diagnoses of the subject, the third list being rank ordered, together with available treatments; and k) generating a report including results of any of (a)-(h). [0054] In some aspects, the method further includes: j) determining the availability of confirmatory tests for the third list of potential differential diagnoses. [0055] In some aspects, the method further includes: k) analyzing the results of (g) and (h) to generate a fourth list of potential differential diagnoses of the subject, the fourth list being rank ordered, together with available confirmatory tests. [0056] In some aspects, the method may further include generating the EMR for the subject prior to determining the phenome of the subject. [0057] As used herein, “phenome” refers to the set of all phenotypes expressed by a cell, tissue, organ, organism, or species. The phenome represents an organisms’ phenotypic traits. [0058] As used herein, “EMR” refers to an electronic medical record and is used synonymously herein with “electronic health record” or “EHR”. [0059] The method includes determining a phenome of a subject from an electronic medical record (EMR). This is performed by extracting a plurality of clinical phenotypes from the EMR. Natural language processing and/or automated feature extraction from non- standardized and standardized fields of the EMR of a subject is used to create a list of the clinical features of disease in that individual. [0060] Translating the clinical phenotypes into standardized vocabulary is then performed utilizing a variety of computation methods known in the art. In one aspect, translation is performed by natural language processing. This type of processing is utilized for translation and mining of non-structured text. Alternatively, data organized in discrete or structured fields may be retrieved/translated utilizing a conventional query language known in the art. Embodiments of standardized vocabularies include the Human Phenotype Ontology, Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine - Clinical Terms, and International Classification of Diseases - Clinical Modification. [0061] The method also entails generating a series of lists (e.g., first, second, third, fourth, and the like) of potential differential diagnoses of the subject. In some aspects, the method entails generating a first list of potential differential diagnoses. This is performed by query of a database populated with known clinical phenotypes expressed in the same vocabulary as the standardized vocabulary of the translated clinical phenotypes. Embodiments of databases of known clinical phenotypes include Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man - Clinical Synopsis, and Orphanet Clinical Signs and Symptoms. The list may be generated with an algorithm that rank orders all potential differential diagnoses based on goodness of fit. The list may also be generated with an algorithm that rank orders all potential differential diagnoses based on the sum of the distances of the observed and expected phenotypes in the standardized, hierarchical vocabulary. [0062] Genetic variants are then determined from genomic sequencing performed on a DNA sample from the subject. In some aspects, this includes annotation and classification of the genetic variants. Annotation of all, or some, of the genetic variations in the subject’s genome is performed to identify all variants that are of categories such as uncertain significance (VUS), pathogenic (P) or likely pathogenic (LP) and to retain genetic variations with an allele frequency of <5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0.5, or 0.1% in a population of healthy individuals. The method may further include annotation of the genetic variants to identify and rank all diplotypes categorically, for example as being of uncertain significance (VUS), pathogenic (P) or likely pathogenic (LP) on the basis of pathogenicity. An embodiment of the classification system is the Joint Consensus Recommendation of the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics and the Association for Molecular Pathology Standards and Guidelines for the Interpretation of Sequence Variants. The method may further include annotation of the pathogenicity of variants and diplotypes on a continuous, probabilistic scale, where a variant that is well established to be benign, for example, has a score of zero, and a variant that is well established to be pathogenic variant has a score of one, and likely benign, variants of uncertain significance, and likely pathogenic variants have scores between zero and one. [0063] A second list of potential differential diagnoses of the subject is then generated by comparing the annotated VUS, LP and P diplotypes on a regional genomic basis with corresponding genomic regions associated with the first list of potential differential diagnoses. Genetic variants are ranked based on a combination of rank of goodness of fit of clinical phenotypes, rank of pathogenicity of diplotypes, and/or allele frequencies of the genetic variants in a population of healthy individuals. The list of potential differential diagnoses may further include annotation of their probability of being causative of the patient’s condition on a continuous scale, rather than binary diagnosis/no diagnosis results. [0064] In some aspects, the genetic variants determined from the subject’s genome may be utilized to generate a probabilistic diagnosis for use in generating the second list of potential diagnoses. [0065] A report is then generated setting forth the potential differential diagnoses of the subject, preferably in order of score to identify the diagnosis with the highest probability. [0066] In some aspects, the method entails generating a third list, and optionally a fourth list of potential differential diagnoses. This is performed by query of a database populated with known clinical phenotypes expressed in the same vocabulary as the standardized vocabulary of the translated clinical phenotypes. Embodiments of databases of known clinical phenotypes include Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man - Clinical Synopsis, and Orphanet Clinical Signs and Symptoms. The lists may be generated with an algorithm that rank orders all potential differential diagnoses based on goodness of fit. The lists may also be generated with an algorithm that rank orders all potential differential diagnoses based on the sum of the distances of the observed and expected phenotypes in the standardized, hierarchical vocabulary. [0067] In various aspects, the method includes determining the efficacy and/or quality of evidence of efficacy of available treatments for the list of potential differential diagnoses. In various aspects, the generated list of potential differential diagnoses of the subject, is rank order and accompanied by the suitable available treatments. [0068] Some aspects of the invention are illustrated in Figure IB. Figure IB is a flow chart showing Al involved automated extraction of the phenome from subject’s EMR by clinical natural language processing (CNLP), translation from SNOMED-CT to Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) terms (e.g., a standardized vocabulary), derivation of a comprehensive differential diagnosis gene list, identification of variants in genomic sequences, assembling those variants into likely pathogenic, causal diplotypes on a gene-by-gene basis, integration of the genotype and differential diagnosis lists, and retention of the highest ranking provisional diagnosis(es). [0069] Some aspects of the invention are illustrated in Figure 7 which is a flow diagram illustrating components of the autonomous system and methodology for diagnosis of genetic diseases by rapid genome sequencing. [0070] The method of the present invention allows for a myriad of genetic analysis types to identify disease. [0071] Methods described herein are useful in perinatal testing wherein the parental, e.g., maternal and/or paternal, genotypes are known. In an aspect, the methods are used to determine if a subject has inherited a deleterious combination of markers, e.g., mutations, from each parent putting the subject at risk for disease, e.g., Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. The disease may be an autosomal recessive disease, e.g., Spinal Muscular Atrophy. The disease may be X- linked, e.g., Fragile X syndrome. The disease may be a disease caused by a dominant mutation in a gene, e.g. , Huntington's Disease. In some aspects, the maternal nucleic acid sequence is the reference sequence. In some aspects, the paternal nucleic acid sequence is the reference sequence. In some aspects, the marker(s), e.g., mutation(s), are common to each parent. In some aspects, the marker(s), e.g., mutation(s), are specific to one parent. [0072] In some aspects, haplotypes of an individual, such as maternal haplotypes, paternal haplotypes, or fetal haplotypes are constructed. The haplotypes include alleles co-located on the same chromosome of the individual. The process is also known as “haplotype phasing” or “phasing”. A haplotype may be any combination of one or more closely linked alleles inherited as a unit. The haplotypes may include different combinations of genetic variants. Artifacts as small as a single nucleotide polymorphism pair can delineate a distinct haplotype. Alternatively, the results from several loci could be referred to as a haplotype. For example, a haplotype can be a set of SNPs on a single chromatid that is statistically associated to be likely to be inherited as a unit. [0073] In some aspects, the maternal haplotype is used to distinguish between a fetal genetic variant and a maternal genetic variant, or to determine which of the two maternal chromosomal loci was inherited by the fetus. [0074] In some aspects, the methods provided herein may be used to detect the presence or absence of a genetic variant in a region of interest in the genome of a subject, such as an infant or fetus in a pregnant woman, wherein the fetal genetic variant is an X-linked recessive genetic variant. X-linked recessive disorders arise more frequently in male fetus because males with the disorder are hemizygous for the particular genetic variant. Example X-linked recessive disorders that can be detected using the methods described herein include Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Becker's muscular dystrophy, X-linked agammaglobulinemia, hemophilia A, and hemophilia B. These X-linked recessive variants can be inherited variants or de novo variants. [0075] In some aspects, provided herein is a method of detecting the presence or absence of a genetic variant in a region of interest in the genome of an infant or a fetus in a pregnant woman, wherein the fetal genetic variant is a de novo genetic variant or a maternally or paternally inherited genetic variant. In some aspects, the mother’s and/or the father's genome is sequenced to reveal whether the genetic variant is a maternally or paternally inherited genetic variant or a de novo genetic variant. That is, if the fetal genetic variant is not present in the mother or the father, and the described method indicates that the fetal genetic variant is distinguishable from the maternal or the paternal genome, then the fetal genetic variant is a de novo variant. Accordingly, provided herein is a method of determining whether a fetal genetic variant is an inherited genetic variant or a de novo genetic variant. [0076] In some aspects, provided herein is a method of detecting the presence or absence of a genetic variant in a region of interest in the genome of an infant or a fetus in a pregnant woman, wherein the fetal genetic variant is a de novo copy number variant (such as a copy number loss variant) or a paternally-inherited copy number variant (such as a copy number loss variant). In some aspects, the father's genome is sequenced to reveal whether the copy number variant is a paternally inherited copy number variant or a de novo copy number variant. That is, if the fetal copy number variant is not present in the father, and the described method indicates that the fetal copy number variant is distinguishable from the maternal genome, then the fetal copy number variant is a de novo copy number variant. Accordingly, provided herein is a method of determining whether a fetal copy number variant is an inherited copy number variant or a de novo copy number variant. [0077] In some aspects, the methods provided herein allow for detecting the presence or absence of a genetic variant in a region of interest in the genome of an infant or fetus in a pregnant woman, wherein the fetal genetic variant is an autosomal recessive fetal genetic variant. In some aspects, the autosomal fetal genetic variant is an SNP. In some aspects, the fetal genetic variant is a copy number variant, such as a copy number loss variant, or a microdeletion. [0078] In some aspects, the methods provided herein allow for detecting the presence or absence of a genetic variant that is indicative of cancer. A subject having, or suspected of having and/or developing cancer can be assessed and/or treated (e.g., by administering one or more cancer treatments to the subject). In some aspects, a cancer can be an early stage cancer. In some aspects, a cancer can be an asymptomatic cancer. A cancer can be any type of cancer. Examples of types of cancers that can be assessed and/or treated as described herein include, without limitation, lung, colorectal, prostate, breast, pancreas, bile duct, liver, CNS, stomach, esophagus, gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), uterus and ovarian cancer. Additional types of cancers include, without limitation, myeloma, multiple myeloma, B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, lymphocytic leukemia, leukemia and myelogenous leukemia. In some aspects, the caner is brain or spinal cord tumor, neuroblastoma, Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, retinoblastoma or bone cancer, such as osteosarcoma. As such, in some aspects, the cancer is a solid tumor. In some aspects, the cancer is a sarcoma, carcinoma, or lymphoma. In some aspects, the cancer is lung, colorectal, prostate, breast, pancreas, bile duct, liver, CNS, stomach, esophagus, gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), uterus or ovarian cancer. In some aspects, the cancer is a hematologic cancer. In some aspects, the cancer is myeloma, multiple myeloma, B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, lymphocytic leukemia, leukemia or myelogenous leukemia. [0079] Available treatments for a subject having, or suspected of having, cancer can be administered one or more cancer treatments. A cancer treatment can be any appropriate cancer treatment. One or more cancer treatments described herein can be administered to a subject at any appropriate frequency (e.g., once or multiple times over a period of time ranging from days to weeks). Examples of cancer treatments include, without limitation adjuvant chemotherapy, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormone therapy, cytotoxic therapy, immunotherapy, adoptive T cell therapy (e.g., chimeric antigen receptors and/or T cells having wild-type or modified T cell receptors), targeted therapy such as administration of kinase inhibitors (e.g., kinase inhibitors that target a particular genetic lesion, such as a translocation or mutation), (e.g., a kinase inhibitor, an antibody, a bispecific antibody), signal transduction inhibitors, bispecific antibodies or antibody fragments (e.g., BiTEs), monoclonal antibodies, immune checkpoint inhibitors, surgery (e.g., surgical resection), or any combination of the above. In some aspects, a cancer treatment can reduce the severity of the cancer, reduce a symptom of the cancer, and/or to reduce the number of cancer cells present within the subject. [0080] In some aspects, a subject is treated using an available therapeutic intervention (e.g., treatment), such as, surgery, diet, drug, genetic/gene therapies, device, adjuvant chemotherapy, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormone therapy, cytotoxic therapy, immunotherapy, adoptive T cell therapy and/or targeted therapy. [0081] The term “mutant,” “variant” or “genetic variant,” when made in reference to an allele or sequence, generally refers to an allele or sequence that does not encode the phenotype most common in a particular natural population. In some cases, a mutant allele can refer to an allele present at a lower frequency in a population relative to the wild-type allele. In some cases, a mutant allele or sequence can refer to an allele or sequence mutated from a wild-type sequence to a mutated sequence that presents a phenotype associated with a disease state and/or drug resistant state. Mutant alleles and sequences may be different from wild-type alleles and sequences by only one base but can be different up to several bases or more. The term mutant when made in reference to a gene generally refers to one or more sequence mutations in a gene, including a point mutation, a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), an insertion, a deletion, a substitution, a transposition, a translocation, a copy number variation, or another genetic mutation, alteration or sequence variation. [0082] In general, the term “genetic variant” or “sequence variant” refers to any variation in sequence relative to one or more reference sequences. Typically, the variant occurs with a lower frequency than the reference sequence for a given population of individuals for whom the reference sequence is known. In some cases, the reference sequence is a single known reference sequence, such as the genomic sequence of a single individual. In some cases, the reference sequence is a consensus sequence formed by aligning multiple known sequences, such as the genomic sequence of multiple individuals serving as a reference population, or multiple sequencing reads of polynucleotides from the same individual. In some cases, the variant occurs with a low frequency in the population (also referred to as a “rare” sequence variant). For example, the variant may occur with a frequency of about or less than about 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 1.5%, 1%, 0.75%, 0.5%, 0.25%, 0.1%, 0.075%, 0.05%, 0.04%, 0.03%, 0.02%, 0.01%, 0.005%, 0.001%, or lower. In some cases, the variant occurs with a frequency of about or less than about 0.1%. A variant can be any variation with respect to a reference sequence. A sequence variation may consist of a change in, insertion of, or deletion of a single nucleotide, or of a plurality of nucleotides (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more nucleotides). Where a variant includes two or more nucleotide differences, the nucleotides that are different may be contiguous with one another, or discontinuous. Non-limiting examples of types of variants include single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), deletion/insertion polymorphisms (INDEL), copy number variants (CNV), loss of heterozygosity (LOH), microsatellite instability (MSI), variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR), and retrotransposon-based insertion polymorphisms. Additional examples of types of variants include those that occur within short tandem repeats (STR) and simple sequence repeats (SSR), or those occurring due to amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) or differences in epigenetic marks that can be detected (e.g. methylation differences). In some aspects, a variant can refer to a chromosome rearrangement, including but not limited to a translocation or fusion gene, or fusion of multiple genes resulting from, for example, chromothripsis. [0083] The method of the disclosure contemplates genetic sequencing. Sequencing may be by any method known in the art. Sequencing methods include, but are not limited to, Maxam- Gilbert sequencing-based techniques, chain-termination-based techniques, shotgun sequencing, bridge PCR sequencing, single-molecule real-time sequencing, ion semiconductor sequencing (Ion Torrent™ sequencing), nanopore sequencing, pyrosequencing (454), sequencing by synthesis, sequencing by ligation (SOLiD™ sequencing), sequencing by electron microscopy, dideoxy sequencing reactions (Sanger method), massively parallel sequencing, polony sequencing, and DNA nanoball sequencing. In some aspects, sequencing involves hybridizing a primer to the template to form a template/primer duplex, contacting the duplex with a polymerase enzyme in the presence of a detectably labeled nucleotides under conditions that permit the polymerase to add nucleotides to the primer in a template-dependent manner, detecting a signal from the incorporated labeled nucleotide, and sequentially repeating the contacting and detecting steps at least once, wherein sequential detection of incorporated labeled nucleotide determines the sequence of the nucleic acid. In some aspects, the sequencing includes obtaining paired end reads. [0084] In some aspects, sequencing of the nucleic acid from the sample is performed using whole genome sequencing (WGS) or rapid WGS (rWGS®). In some aspects, targeted sequencing is performed and may be either DNA or RNA sequencing. The targeted sequencing may be to a subset of the whole genome. In some aspects, the targeted sequencing is to introns, exons, non-coding sequences or a combination thereof. In other aspects, targeted whole exome sequencing (WES) of the DNA from the sample is performed. The DNA is sequenced using a next generation sequencing platform (NGS), which is massively parallel sequencing. NGS technologies provide high throughput sequence information, and provide digital quantitative information, in that each sequence read that aligns to the sequence of interest is countable. In certain aspects, clonally amplified DNA templates or single DNA molecules are sequenced in a massively parallel fashion within a flow cell (e.g. , as described in WO 2014/015084). In addition to high-throughput sequence information, NGS provides quantitative information, in that each sequence read is countable and represents an individual clonal DNA template or a single DNA molecule. The sequencing technologies of NGS include pyrosequencing, sequencing-by-synthesis with reversible dye terminators, sequencing by oligonucleotide probe ligation and ion semiconductor sequencing. DNA from individual samples can be sequenced individually (i.e., singleplex sequencing) or DNA from multiple samples can be pooled and sequenced as indexed genomic molecules (i.e., multiplex sequencing) on a single sequencing run, to generate up to several hundred million reads of DNA sequences. Commercially available platforms include, e.g., platforms for sequencing- by-synthesis, ion semiconductor sequencing, pyrosequencing, reversible dye terminator sequencing, sequencing by ligation, single-molecule sequencing, sequencing by hybridization, and nanopore sequencing. In some aspects, the methodology of the disclosure utilizes systems such as those provided by Illumina, Inc, (HiSeq™ XI 0, HiSeq™ 1000, HiSeq™ 2000, HiSeq™ 2500, HiSeq™ 4000, NovaSeq™ 6000, Genome Analyzers™, MiSeq™ systems), Applied Biosystems Life Technologies (ABI PRISM™ Sequence detection systems, SOLiD™ System, Ion PGM™ Sequencer, ion Proton™ Sequencer). [0085] In some aspects, rWGS® of DNA is performed. In some aspects, rWGS® is performed on samples of the subject, e.g., an infant, neonate or fetus. In some aspects, rWGS® is performed on maternal samples along with that of the subject. In some aspects, rWGS® is performed on paternal samples along with that of the subject. In some aspects, rWGS® is performed on maternal and paternal samples along with that of the subject. [0086] In some aspects, rapid whole exome sequencing (rWES) of DNA is performed. In some aspects, rWES is performed on samples of the subject, e.g., an infant, neonate or fetus. In some aspects, rWES is performed on maternal samples along with that of the subject. In some aspects, rWES is performed on paternal samples along with that of the subject. In some aspects, rWES is performed on maternal and paternal samples along with that of the subject. [0087] As used herein, the term “mutation” herein refers to a change introduced into a reference sequence, including, but not limited to, substitutions, insertions, deletions (including truncations) relative to the reference sequence. Mutations can involve large sections of DNA (e.g., copy number variation). Mutations can involve whole chromosomes (e.g., aneuploidy). Mutations can involve small sections of DNA. Examples of mutations involving small sections of DNA include, e.g., point mutations or single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), multiple nucleotide polymorphisms, insertions (e.g., insertion of one or more nucleotides at a locus but less than the entire locus), multiple nucleotide changes, deletions (e.g. , deletion of one or more nucleotides at a locus), and inversions (e.g. , reversal of a sequence of one or more nucleotides). The consequences of a mutation include, but are not limited to, the creation of a new character, property, function, phenotype or trait not found in the protein encoded by the reference sequence. In some aspects, the reference sequence is a parental sequence. In some aspects, the reference sequence is a reference human genome, e.g., hl 9. In some aspects, the reference sequence is derived from a non-cancer (or nontumor) sequence. In some aspects, the mutation is inherited. In some aspects, the mutation is spontaneous or de novo. [0088] As used herein, a “gene” refers to a DNA segment that is involved in producing a polypeptide and includes regions preceding and following the coding regions as well as intervening sequences (introns) between individual coding segments (exons). [0089] The terms “polynucleotide,” “nucleotide sequence,” “nucleic acid,” and “oligonucleotide” are used interchangeably. They refer to a polymeric form of nucleotides of any length, either deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides, or analogs thereof. Polynucleotides may have any three-dimensional structure, and may perform any function, known or unknown. Polynucleotides may be single- or multi-stranded (e.g. , single-stranded, double-stranded, and triple-helical) and contain deoxyribonucleotides, ribonucleotides, and/or analogs or modified forms of deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides, including modified nucleotides or bases or their analogs. Because the genetic code is degenerate, more than one codon may be used to encode a particular amino acid, and the present invention encompasses polynucleotides which encode a particular amino acid sequence. Any type of modified nucleotide or nucleotide analog may be used, so long as the polynucleotide retains the desired functionality under conditions of use, including modifications that increase nuclease resistance e.g., deoxy, 2'-O-Me, phosphorothioates, and the like). Labels may also be incorporated for purposes of detection or capture, for example, radioactive or nonradioactive labels or anchors, e.g., biotin. The term polynucleotide also includes peptide nucleic acids (PNA). Polynucleotides may be naturally occurring or non-naturally occurring. Polynucleotides may contain RNA, DNA, or both, and/or modified forms and/or analogs thereof. A sequence of nucleotides may be interrupted by non-nucleotide components. One or more phosphodiester linkages may be replaced by alternative linking groups. These alternative linking groups include, but are not limited to, embodiments wherein phosphate is replaced by P(O)S (“thioate”), P(S)S (“dithioate”), (O)NR2(“amidate”), P(O)R, P(O)OR', CO or CH2 (“formacetal”), in which each R or R' is independently H or substituted or unsubstituted alkyl (1-20 C) optionally containing an ether (—0—) linkage, aryl, alkenyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl or araldyl. The following are non-limiting examples of polynucleotides: coding or non-coding regions of a gene or gene fragment, intergenic DNA, loci (locus) defined from linkage analysis, exons, introns, messenger RNA (mRNA), transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA, short interfering RNA (siRNA), short-hairpin RNA (shRNA), micro- RNA (miRNA), small nucleolar RNA, ribozymes, cDNA, recombinant polynucleotides, branched polynucleotides, plasmids, vectors, isolated DNA of any sequence, isolated RNA of any sequence, nucleic acid probes, adapters, and primers. A polynucleotide may include modified nucleotides, such as methylated nucleotides and nucleotide analogs. If present, modifications to the nucleotide structure may be imparted before or after assembly of the polymer. The sequence of nucleotides may be interrupted by non-nucleotide components. A polynucleotide may be further modified after polymerization, such as by conjugation with a labeling component, tag, reactive moiety, or binding partner. Polynucleotide sequences, when provided, are listed in the 5' to 3' direction, unless stated otherwise. [0090] As used herein, “polypeptide” refers to a composition including amino acids and recognized as a protein by those of skill in the art. The conventional one-letter or three-letter code for amino acid residues is used herein. The terms “polypeptide” and “protein” are used interchangeably herein to refer to polymers of amino acids of any length. The polymer may be linear or branched, it may include modified amino acids, and it may be interrupted by nonamino acids. The terms also encompass an amino acid polymer that has been modified naturally or by intervention; for example, disulfide bond formation, glycosylation, lipidation, acetylation, phosphorylation, or any other manipulation or modification, such as conjugation with a labeling component. Also included within the definition are, for example, polypeptides containing one or more analogs of an amino acid (including, for example, unnatural amino acids, synthetic amino acids and the like), as well as other modifications known in the art. [0091] As used herein, the term “sample” herein refers to any substance containing or presumed to contain nucleic acid. The sample can be a biological sample obtained from a subject. The nucleic acids can be RNA, DNA, e.g., genomic DNA, mitochondrial DNA, viral DNA, synthetic DNA, or cDNA reverse transcribed from RNA. The nucleic acids in a nucleic acid sample generally serve as templates for extension of a hybridized primer. In some aspects, the biological sample is a biological fluid sample. The fluid sample can be whole blood, plasma, serum, ascites, cerebrospinal fluid, sweat, urine, tears, saliva, buccal sample, cavity rinse, feces or organ rinse. The fluid sample can be an essentially cell-free liquid sample (e.g., plasma, serum, sweat, urine, and tears). In other aspects, the biological sample is a solid biological sample, e.g., feces or tissue biopsy, e.g., a tumor biopsy. A sample can also include in vitro cell culture constituents (including but not limited to conditioned medium resulting from the growth of cells in cell culture medium, recombinant cells and cell components). In some aspects, the sample is a biological sample that is a mixture of nucleic acids from multiple sources, i.e., there is more than one contributor to a biological sample, e.g., two or more individuals. In one aspect, the biological sample is a dried blood spot. [0092] In the present invention, the subject is typically a human but also can be any species with methylation marks on its genome, including, but not limited to, a dog, cat, rabbit, cow, bird, rat, horse, pig, or monkey. In one aspect, the subject is a human child. In some aspects, the child is less than 5, 4, 3, 2 or 1 year of age. In aspects, the subject is an infant, neonate or fetus. [0093] COMPUTER SYSTEMS [0094] The present invention is described partly in terms of functional components and various processing steps. Such functional components and processing steps may be realized by any number of components, operations and techniques configured to perform the specified functions and achieve the various results. For example, the present invention may employ various biological samples, biomarkers, elements, materials, computers, data sources, storage systems and media, information gathering techniques and processes, data processing criteria, statistical analyses, regression analyses and the like, which may carry out a variety of functions. In addition, although the invention is described in the medical diagnosis context, the present invention may be practiced in conjunction with any number of applications, environments and data analyses; the systems described herein are merely exemplary applications for the invention. [0095] Methods for genetic analysis according to various aspects of the present invention may be implemented in any suitable manner, for example using a computer program operating on the computer system. An exemplary genetic analysis system, according to various aspects of the present invention, may be implemented in conjunction with a computer system, for example a conventional computer system including a processor and a random access memory, such as a remotely-accessible application server, network server, personal computer or workstation. The computer system also suitably includes additional memory devices or information storage systems, such as a mass storage system and a user interface, for example a conventional monitor, keyboard and tracking device. The computer system may, however, include any suitable computer system and associated equipment and may be configured in any suitable manner. In one aspect, the computer system includes a stand-alone system. In another aspect, the computer system is part of a network of computers including a server and a database. [0096] The software required for receiving, processing, and analyzing genetic information may be implemented in a single device or implemented in a plurality of devices. The software may be accessible via a network such that storage and processing of information takes place remotely with respect to users. The genetic analysis system according to various aspects of the present invention and its various elements provide functions and operations to facilitate genetic analysis, such as data gathering, processing, analysis, reporting and/or diagnosis. The present genetic analysis system maintains information relating to samples and facilitates analysis and/or diagnosis. For example, in the present embodiment, the computer system executes the computer program, which may receive, store, search, analyze, and report information relating to the genome. The computer program may include multiple modules performing various functions or operations, such as a processing module for processing raw data and generating supplemental data and an analysis module for analyzing raw data and supplemental data to generate a disease status model and/or diagnosis information. [0097] The procedures performed by the genetic analysis system may include any suitable processes to facilitate genetic analysis and/or disease diagnosis. In one embodiment, the genetic analysis system is configured to establish a disease status model and/or determine disease status in a patient. Determining or identifying disease status may include generating any useful information regarding the condition of the patient relative to the disease, such as performing a diagnosis, providing information helpful to a diagnosis, assessing the stage or progress of a disease, identifying a condition that may indicate a susceptibility to the disease, identify whether further tests may be recommended, predicting and/or assessing the efficacy of one or more treatment programs, or otherwise assessing the disease status, likelihood of disease, or other health aspect of the patient. [0098] The genetic analysis system may also provide various additional modules and/or individual functions. For example, the genetic analysis system may also include a reporting function, for example to provide information relating to the processing and analysis functions. The genetic analysis system may also provide various administrative and management functions, such as controlling access and performing other administrative functions. The genetic analysis system may also provide clinical decision support, to assist the physician in the provision of individualized genomic or precision medicine for the analyzed patient. [0099] The genetic analysis system suitably generates a disease status model and/or provides a diagnosis for a patient based on genomic data and/or additional subject data relating to the subject’s health or well-being. The genetic data may be acquired from any suitable biological samples. [00100] The following example is provided to further illustrate the advantages and features of the present invention, but it is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. While this example is typical of those that might be used, other procedures, methodologies, or techniques known to those skilled in the art may alternatively be used. EXAMPLE 1 RAPID GENOME SEQUENCING FOR GENETIC DISEASE DIAGNOSIS [00101] In this example, a prototypic, autonomous system for rapid diagnosis of genetic diseases in intensive care unit populations is described. It performs clinical natural language processing (CNLP) to automatically identify deep phenomes of acutely ill children from electronic medical records (EMR). [00102] EXPERIMENTAL MATERIALS AND METHODS [00103] Study Design. [00104] This study was designed to furnish training and test datasets to assist in the development of a prototypic, autonomous system for very rapid, population-scale, provisional diagnoses of genetic diseases by genomic sequencing, and separate datasets to test the analytic and diagnostic performance of the resultant system both retrospectively and prospectively. The 401 subjects analyzed herein were a convenience sample of the first symptomatic children who were enrolled in four studies that examined the diagnostic rate, time to diagnosis, clinical utility of diagnosis, outcomes, and healthcare utilization of rapid genomic sequencing at Rady Children’s Hospital, San Diego, USA (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifiers: NCT03211039, NCT02917460, and NCT03385876). One of the studies was a randomized controlled trial of genome and exome sequencing (NCT03211039); the others were cohort studies. All subjects had a symptomatic illness of unknown etiology in which a genetic disorder was suspected. All subjects had a Rady Children’s Hospital Epic EHR and a genomic sequence (genome or exome) that had been interpreted manually for diagnosis of a genetic disease. They included five groups, namely, 16 children tested for genetic diseases by rapid whole genome sequencing whose EHRs were used to train CNLP (Table 4), ten children with genetic diseases diagnosed by rapid genomic sequencing whose EHRs were used to test the performance of CNLP (Table 5), 101 children with genetic diseases diagnosed by rapid genomic sequencing whose genomic sequences and EHRs were used to test the retrospective performance of the autonomous diagnostic system, seven seriously ill children with suspected genetic diseases whose DNA samples and EHRs were used to test the prospective performance of the autonomous diagnostic system (Table 1), and 274 control children in whom rapid genomic sequencing did not disclose a genetic disease diagnosis. [00105] Standard, clinical, rapid whole genome and exome sequencing, analysis and interpretation. [00106] Standard, clinical, rWGS® and rWES were performed in laboratories accredited by the College of American Pathologists (CAP) and certified through Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA). Experts selected key clinical features representative of each child’s illness from the Epic EHR and mapped them to genetic diagnoses with Phenomizer™ or Phenolyzer™. Trio EDTA-blood samples were obtained where possible. Genomic DNA was isolated with an EZ1 Advanced XL™ robot and the EZ1 DSP DNA™ Blood kit (Qiagen). DNA quality was assessed with the Quant-iT Picogreen dsDNA™ assay kit (ThermoFisher Scientific) using the Gemini EM Microplate Reader™ (Molecular Devices). Genomic DNA was fragmented by sonication (Covaris) and bar-coded, paired- end, PCR-free libraries were prepared for rWGS® with TruSeq DNA LT™ kits (Illumina) or Hyper kits (KAPA Biosystems). Sequencing libraries were analyzed with a Library Quantification Kit™ (KAPA Biosystems) and High Sensitivity NGS Fragment Analysis Kit™ (Advanced Analytical), respectively. Paired-end 101 nt rWGS® was performed to 45- fold coverage with Illumina HiSeq™ 2500 (rapid run mode), HiSeq™ 4000, or NovaSeq™ 6000 (S2 flow cell) instruments, as described. rWES was performed by GeneDx™. Exome enrichment was with the xGen Exome Research Panel™ vl.O (Integrated DNA Technologies), and amplification used the Herculase II Fusion™ polymerase (Agilent). Sequences were aligned to human genome assembly GRCh37 (hgl9), and variants were identified with the DRAGEN™ Platform (v.2.5.1, Illumina, San Diego). Structural variants were identified with Manta™ and CNVnator™ (using DNAnexus™), a combination that provided the highest sensitivity and precision in 21 samples with known structural variants (Table 6). Structural variants were filtered to retain those affecting coding regions of known disease genes and with allele frequencies <2% in the RCIGM database. Nucleotide and structural variants were annotated, analyzed, and interpreted by clinical molecular geneticists using Opal Clinical™ (Fabric Genomics), according to standard guidelines. Opal™ annotated variants with respect to pathogenicity, generated a rank ordered differential diagnosis based on the disease gene algorithm VAAST, a gene burden test, and the algorithm PHEVOR (Phenotype Driven Variant Ontological Re-ranking), which combined the observed HPO phenotype terms from patients, and re-ranked disease genes based on the phenotypic match and the gene score. Automatically generated, ranked results were manual interpreted through iterative Opal searches. Initially, variants were filtered to retain those with allele frequencies of <1% in the Exome Variant Server™, 1000 Genomes Samples™, and Exome Aggregation Consortium™ database. Variants were further filtered for de novo, recessive and dominant inheritance patterns. The evidence supporting a diagnosis was then manually evaluated by comparison with the published literature. Analysis, interpretation and reporting required an average of six hours of expert effort. If rWGS® or rWES established a provisional diagnosis for which a specific treatment was available to prevent morbidity or mortality, this was immediately conveyed to the clinical team, as described. All causative variants were confirmed by Sanger sequencing or chromosomal microarray, as appropriate. Secondary findings were not reported, but medically actionable incidental findings were reported if families consented to receiving this information. [00107] Natural Language Processing and Phenotype Extraction. [00108] Extraction of HPO terms from the EHR entailed four steps as follows. [00109] 1) Clinical records were exported from the EHR data warehouse, transformed into a compatible format (JSON) and loaded into CLiX ENRICH™. [00110] 2) A semi-automated query map was created, using HPO terms (and their synonyms) as the input and CLiX queries as the output. The HPO terms were passed through the CLiX encoding engine, resulting in creation of CLiX post-coordinated SNOMED™ expressions for each recognized HPO term or synonym. Where matches were not exact, manual review was used to validate the generated CLiX™ queries. Where there was no match or incorrect matches, new content was added to the Clinithink SNOMED™ extension and terminology files to ensure appropriate matches between phenotypes in HPO and those in SNOMED- CT™. This was an iterative process that resulted in a CLiX™ query set that covered 60% (7,706) of 12,786 HPO terms (October 9 2017 HPO build). [00111] 3) EHR documents containing unstructured data were passed through the CNLP engine. The natural language processing engine read the unstructured text and encoded it in structured format as post- coordinated SNOMED expressions as shown in the example below which corresponds to HP0007973, retinal dysplasia: [00112] 243796009| Situation with explicit context) : {408731000|Temporal context ~41 51 1007 Current or past|, 246090004|Associated finding|=95494009| Retinal dysplasia), 408732007|Subject relationship context |=410604004 (Subject of record), 408729009|Finding context |=410515003 (Known present) } [00113] Each SNOMED expression is made up of several parts, including the associated clinical finding, the temporal context, finding context and subject context all contained within the situational wrapper. Capturing fully post-coordinated SNOMED expressions ensures that the correct context of the clinical note is preserved. Some HPO phenotypes cannot be found in SNOMED and can only be represented using post-coordinated expressions, as shown in the following example, which is the encoding of HP0008020, progressive cone dystrophy: [00114] 2437960091 Situation with explicit context): {408731000|Temporal context ~41 51 1007 Current or past), 246090004|Associated finding|=(312917007 |Cone dystrophy) :263502005 (Clinical course ~2553140 1 Progressive ), 408732007|Subject relationship context |=410604004| Subject of record], 408729009|Finding context |=410515003 |Known present] } [00115] Here, an additional attribute for ‘Clinical Course’ and an appropriate value, ‘Progressive’ , are used to further qualify the expression. Clinithink™ used references to these SNOMED™ expressions, linked with Boolean logic, to create the queries corresponding to HPO terms. Shown below is an example query for HP0008866, failure to thrive secondary to recurrent infections: [00116] c*hp0008866_Failure_to_thrive_secondary_to_recurrent_infections (hp0008866_ 1 > 1 _F ailure_to_thrive_q AND hp0002719_ 1 > 1 _Infection_Recurrent_q) [00117] q-hp0008866_l_l_Failure_to_thrive_q 243796009 (Situation with explicit context): {408731000|Temporal context|=410511007|Current or past|,246090004|Associated finding|=54840006|Failure to thrive), 408732007|Subject relationship context|=410604004|S ubject of record), 408729009|Finding context ~410515003 |Known present]} [00118] q-hp0002719_l_l_ _Infection_Recurrent_q 243796009|Situation with explicit context): {408731000|Temporal context ~4 I 51 1007|Current or past|,246090004|Associated finding|=(40733004|Infection|:263502005 (Clinical course|=255227004|Recurrent|), 4087320 07|Subject relationship context|=410604004) Subject of record], 408729009|Finding context|=410515003 (Known present) } [00119] For an encoding created from the unstructured data to trigger one of these queries, all of the components must be matched. Therefore, the encoding of a clinical note describing an affected sibling will not trigger the query since the encoding is that of family history whilst the query looks for the term in the subject of the record (e.g., the patient). Furthermore, it should be noted that some individual HPO synonyms generate more than one SNOMED™ expression. Therefore, each query used in the query set is a compound of often more than 2 SNOMED™ expressions. If the above constants are stripped out from each expression (the associated clinical finding, the temporal context, finding context and subject context all contained within the situational wrapper) from each expression in the query set (along with all of the associated SNOMED™ codes), the inventors can create a more readable format to show linguistically what is included in each query created by Clinithink™. [00120] 4) This encoded data was then interrogated by the CLiX™ query technology (abstraction). To trigger an HPO query, the encoded data had to either contain an exact match, or one of its logical descendants (exploiting the parent child hierarchy of the SNOMED™ ontology), resulting in a list of HPO terms for each patient. [00121] rWGS®. [00122] Sequencing libraries were prepared from lOpL of EDTA blood or five 3-mm punches from a Nucleic-Card Matrix™ dried blood spot (ThermoFisher) with Nextera DNA Flex Library Prep™ kits (Illumina) and five cycles of PCR, as described. For structural variant analysis, libraries were prepared by Hyper™ kits (KAPA Biosystems), as described above. Libraries were quantified with Quant- iT Picogreen dsDNA™ assays (ThermoFisher). Libraries were sequenced (2 x 101 nt) without indexing on the SI FC with Novaseq™ 6000 SI reagent kits (Illumina). Sequences were aligned to human genome assembly GRCh37 (hgl9), and nucleotide variants were identified with the DRAGEN™ Platform (v.2.5.1, Illumina). [00123] Automated Tertiary Analysis. [00124] Automated variant interpretation was performed using MOON™ (Diploid). Data sources and versions were ClinVar™: 2018-04-29; dbNSFP: 3.5; dbSNP: 150; dbscSNV: 1.1; Apollo: 2018-07-20; Ensembl: 37; gnomAD: 2.0.1; HPO: 2017-10-05; DGV: 2016-03-01; dbVar: 2018-06-24; MOON: 2.0.5). MOON™ generated a list of potential provisional diagnoses by sequentially filtering and ranking variants using decision trees, Bayesian models, neural networks, and natural language processing. MOON™ was iteratively trained with thousands of prior patient samples uploaded by prior investigators. No samples analysed in this study were used in training of MOON™. [00125] The filtering pipeline was designed to minimize false negatives. For SNV analysis, MOON™ excluded low quality and common variants (>2% in gnomAD), and known likely benign/Benign variants in ClinVar™. Only variants in coding regions, splice site regions and known pathogenic variants in non-coding regions were retained. A disease annotation was added to the remaining variants based on a proprietary disorder model. The disorder model performs natural language processing of the genetics literature to automatically extract associations between diseases, disease genes, inheritance patterns, specific clinical features, and other metadata on an ongoing basis. [00126] Subsequent steps included filtering on variant frequency, with variable frequency thresholds depending on the inheritance pattern of the associated disease, known pathogenicity of the variant, and typical age of onset range of the annotated disease. In family analyses (duo/trio analysis), co-segregation of the variant with the phenotype, according to autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, X-linked dominant or X-linked recessive inheritance patterns, was taken into account. Parent-child variant segregation was not applied as a strict filter criterion, thereby also ensuring that causal mutations following non- Mendelian inheritance (eg. with incomplete penetrance) were identified in family analyses. For proband-only analyses, only variants for which the zygosity of the called variant fit the inheritance pattern of the annotated disease were retained. In a final filter step, the phenotype overlap was scored between the input HPO terms describing the patient’s phenotype and known disease manifestations of the annotated disorder annotated from the published literature. Variants in genes for which the phenotype match with the annotated disease was considered too limited based on Apollo™ were removed from the analysis. The final rank of variants was based on proprietary algorithms that took phenotype match and variant effect into account. In addition, MOON™ provided all metadata supporting the pathogenicity of ranked variants. MOON™ also returned an annotated list of all rare variants (<2% in gnomAD) and carrier status for recessive disorders. [00127] For structural variant analysis, MOON™ removed known benign SV based on the Database of Genomic Variants™ (DGV). SVs overlapping pathogenic SVs listed in dbVar were retained for analysis. From the remaining variants, MOON™ discarded SV that did not overlap with coding regions of known disease genes (Apollo™). If a family analysis was performed, segregation of the SV was taken into account, although non-Mendelian inheritance patterns (for example, incomplete penetrance) were also supported. In a final filter step, only SVs for which there was phenotype overlap between the input HPO terms and known disease presentations of at least one of the genes affected by the SV, were retained. MOON™ then reported a ranked list of candidate SV, where ranking was mostly based on phenotype overlap. [00128] Statistical Analysis. [00129] To assess the complexity of phenomes associated with childhood genetic diseases, the inventors compared phenotypes identified by manual review, CNLP, and listed for each patient’s diagnosis in OMIM. All analyses were conducted in R v3.3.3. When applying CNLP to a patient’s EHR, the list of HPO terms produced contained both terms that had an exact match to a phenotype in the clinical notes and terms that were superclasses (ancestor terms) of exact matches. The R package ontologyindex™ v2.4 was used to load the October 2017 build of HPO into R and calculate the IC of each HPO term in the entire OMIM corpus. The IC for term phenotype, which reflects its clinical specificity, is given by C(phenotype) = - log (^phenotype), where pphenotype was the probability of observing the exact term or one of its subclasses across all diseases in OMIM™. Since phenotypes that were extracted manually and by CNLP were restricted to subclasses of ‘Phenotypic abnormality’ (HP:0000118), OMIM™ terms that were subclasses of ‘Clinical Modifier’ (HP:0012823), ‘Frequency’ (HP:0040279), ‘Mode of inheritance’ (HP:0000005), and ‘Mortality/Aging’ (HP:0040006) were not included in the analyses. Phenotype sets were first compared visually by plotting the HPO graph for each patient with the R package hpoPlot™ v2.4. Summary statistics for outcomes of interest include the mean, standard deviation (SD), and range. Prior to testing for significant differences, outcome variables were tested for normality using the Shapiro- Wilk test. Due to deviations from normality, differences in phenotype counts and IC were evaluated with 2-sided Mann- Whitney U tests and when the data were paired, Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. Correlation was assessed with Spearman's rank correlation coefficient (rs). Precision and recall were given by tp/(tp+fp) and tp/(tp+fii), respectively, where tp were true positives, fp were false positives, and fn were false negatives. The number of true positives, tp, was defined in two ways. First, tp was set to the number of HPO terms that overlapped between sets of phenotypes. Second, tp was calculated based on terms that were up to one degree of separation apart within the HPO hierarchy (parent-child terms) between sets of phenotypes, allowing for inexact, but similar, matches. Additional graphics were produced with packages ggplot2 v 2.2.1 and eulerr v4.0.0. A significance cutoff of p <0.05 was used for all analyses. [00130] RESULTS [00131] Rapid genome sequencing for genetic disease diagnosis. [00132] In light of the limitations of current methods of rapid genomic sequencing, the inventors developed an automated platform for rapid, high throughput, provisional diagnosis of genetic diseases with genome sequencing by automating and accelerating our conventional workflow (Figure 1). Conventional clinical genome sequencing requires preparatory steps of manual purification of genomic DNA from blood, DNA quality assessment, normalization of DNA concentration, sequencing library preparation, and library quality assessment (Figure 1A). Instead, the inventors manually prepared sequencing libraries directly from blood or dried blood spots using microbeads to which transposons were attached (Nextera DNA Flex Library Prep Kit™, Illumina, Inc.; Figure IB), as this method was both faster and less labor intensive. Of note, dried blood spots are the sample type used in mandatory newborn screening worldwide. In four timed runs with retrospective samples, manual Nextera™ library preparation from dried blood spots took a mean of 2 hours and 45 minutes, compared with at least 10 hours by conventional DNA purification and library preparation (Truseq DNA PCR-free Library Prep Kit™, Illumina, Inc.; Table 1). As with standard methods, Nextera Flex™ allowed samples to be prepared in batches and was amenable to automation with liquid-handling robots. [00133] Following the preparatory steps, our previous method performed rapid genome sequencing with the HiSeq™ 2500 sequencer (Illumina) in rapid run mode, with one sample sequenced per sequencing instrument (—120 gigabases (Gb) of 2 x 101 nt) in ~25 hours (Figure 1A). Here the inventors instead performed rapid genome sequencing with the NovaSeq™ 6000 sequencer and SI flow cell (Illumina) (Figure IB), as this instrument was faster and less labor-intensive, requiring fewer steps to set up a sequencing run and automatically washing the instrument after a run. In four timed runs with retrospective samples, 2 x 101 nt genome sequencing took a mean 15:32 hours and yielded 404-537 Gb per flow cell, sufficient for 2-3 40X genome sequences (Table 1, Table 2). [00134] Dynamic Read Analysis for GENomics™ (DRAGEN™, Illumina) is a hardware and software platform for alignment and variant calling that has been highly optimized for speed, sensitivity and accuracy. The inventors wrote scripts to automate the transfer of files from the sequencer to the DRAGEN™ platform. The DRAGEN™ platform then automatically aligned the reads to the reference genome and identified and genotyped nucleotide variants. Alignment and variant calling took a median of 1 hour for 150 Gb of paired-end lOlnt sequences (primary and secondary analysis, Table 1). Analytic performance of this new method, from blood sample receipt to output of genomic variant genotypes, was similar to standard clinical methods with reference human genome samples, retrospective patient samples, and prospective patient samples, except for lower sensitivity in the detection of nucleotide insertions/deletions (Table 2, Table 3). The new method did not assess structural variations. [00135] CNLP of electronic health records (EHRs). [00136] Genetic disease diagnosis requires determination of a differential diagnosis based on the overlap of the observed clinical features of a child’s illness (phenotypic features) with the expected features of all genetic diseases. However, comprehensive EHR review can take hours. Additionally, manual phenotypic feature selection can be sparse and subjective, and even expert reviewers can carry an unwritten bias into interpretation (Figure 1A). The inventors sought automated, complete phenotypic feature extraction from EHRs, unbiased by expert opinion. The simplest approach would be to extract universal, structured phenotypic features, such as International Classification of Diseases (ICD) medical diagnosis codes, or Diagnosis Related Group (DRG) codes. However, these are sparse and lack sufficient specificity. Instead, the inventors extracted clinical features from unstructured text in patient EHRs by CNLP that the inventors optimized for identification of patients with orphan diseases (CLiX ENRICH™, Clinithink Ltd.) (Figure IB, 2A). The inventors then iteratively optimized the protocol for the Rady Children’s Hospital Epic EHRs using a training set of sixteen children who had received genomic sequencing for genetic disease diagnosis (Table 4). The standard output from CLiX ENRICH™ is in the form of Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine Clinical Terms (SNOMED-CT™). However, our automated methods required phenotypic features described in the Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO), a hierarchical reference vocabulary designed for description of the clinical features of genetic diseases (Figure 2B). For this reason, the inventors mapped 7,706 (60%) of 12,786 HPO terms (13,685 including synonyms) and 75.4% of Orphanet Rare Disease HPO™ terms (June 2018 release) to SNOMED-CT™ by lexical and logical methods and then manually verified them. This enabled automated translation of phenotypic features extracted from the EHR by CNLP from SNOMED-CT™ concepts to HPO™ terms (Figure IB). In contrast, a previous study mapped 92% of HPO™ terms to SNOMED-CT™, but only 49% were shown to be ontologically valid and clinically relevant. [00137] The performance of the optimized CNLP was tested with the EHRs of ten test children who had received genomic sequencing for genetic disease diagnosis. The training and test sets did not overlap. Both exact EHR phenotypic feature matches and their hierarchical root terms were extracted from first record until time of enrollment for genomic sequencing. CNLP identified a mean of 86.7 phenotypic features (standard deviation (SD) 32.8, range 26-158; Table 5) in approximately 20 seconds per patient. A detailed manual review of the EHR was performed to identify all true positive, false positive and false negative CNLP phenotypic features in the test children. Based on this, the precision (positive predictive value, PPV) of CNLP was 0.80 (SD 0.13, range 0.50-0.93) and recall (sensitivity) was 0.93 (SD 0.02, range 0.91-0.96; Table 5), which were superior to prior CNLP -based extraction of HPO terms. The principal reasons for false positives (FP) were: 1) incorrect CLiX™ encoding (n=89, 38% of 237 phenotypic features) due to misinterpreted context (n=31), unrecognized headings (n=23), incorrect acronym expansion (n=21), incorrect interpretation of a clinical word (n=8), or incorrectly attributed finding site for disease (n=6); 2) ambiguity of source text (unrecognized or incorrect syntax, abbreviations, acronyms or terminology; n=46, 19% of 237); 3) incongruity between SNOMED/HPO/clinical acumen (n=20, 8%); 4) failure to recognize a pasted citation as non-clinical text (n=68, 29%); and, 5) incorrect query logic (n=14, 6%) (Table 5). [00138] Characterization of the CNLP-derived phenomes of children with suspected genetic diseases. [00139] Development of an autonomous diagnostic system has been hindered by a dearth of knowledge of the topography of the phenomes of children with suspected genetic diseases. Therefore the inventors compared EHR CNLP-derived phenomes with the comparatively sparse phenotypic features selected by experts during manual interpretation of the first 375 symptomatic children to receive genomic sequencing for diagnosis of genetic diseases at Rady Children’s Hospital (101 children diagnosed with genomic sequencing: Figures 3A-D, 274 children that were not diagnosed: Figure 3E-H). In 101 of these children, who had received genomic diagnoses of 105 genetic diseases (four had dual diagnoses), the inventors also compared the observed phenotypic features with the expected phenotypic features for those diseases, obtained from the Clinical Synopsis field of Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man™ (OMIM™). In the 101 diagnosed children, CNLP identified 27-fold more phenotypic features (mean 116.1, SD 93.6, range 13-521) than expert manual selection at interpretation (mean 4.2, SD 2.6, range 1-16), and 4-fold more than OMIM (mean 27.3, SD 22.8, range 1- 100; Figure 3A, 3D) (45. 46). Similarly, prior studies demonstrated 2-fold more phenotypic features extracted by CNLP than comprehensive, expert manual extraction, and 18-fold more phenotypic features extracted by CNLP than Orphanet HPO™ terms for those diseases. CNLP extracted more phenotypic features in the 101 diagnosed children than the 274 undiagnosed children (mean, 116.1 vs 90.7, respectively; P=0.0004, Mann- Whitney U test; Figure 3A, 3D, 3E, 3H). This suggested the possibility that undiagnosed children, in part, did not have enough detail in their medical records to make a molecular diagnosis. In addition, there was greater overlap between CNLP- and manually-extracted phenotypic features in diagnosed children (mean 2.74 terms, SD 1.7, range 0-9) than undiagnosed (mean 1.52 terms, SD 1.48, range 0-7; P<0.0001, Mann- Whitney U test; Figure 3D, 3H). This suggested that undiagnosed children, in part, had less consistent information on phenotypic features. [00140] In the 101 diagnosed children, phenotypic features extracted by CNLP overlapped expected OMIM phenotypic features (mean 4.31 terms, SD 4.59, range 0-32) significantly more than the manual extracted phenotypic features (mean 0.92 terms, SD 1.02, range 0-4; P<0.0001, paired Wilcoxon test; Figure 3B). Although the cohort included eight genetic diseases that were incidental findings, their exclusion did not materially change these results (Figure 4). Thus, the recall of OMIM™ phenotypic features by CNLP, although small (mean 0.20, SD 0.16, range 0-0.67), was substantially greater than the sparse expert manual phenotypic features used in expert manual interpretation (mean 0.04, SD 0.06, range 0-0.25) (Figure 5). However, the much larger number of phenotypic features extracted by CNLP was associated with lower precision (mean 0.04, SD 0.03, range 0-0.15) than manual extraction (mean 0.25, SD 0.30, range 0-1) when compared with OMIM, indicating that, by design, an autonomous diagnostic system should not penalize false positive phenotypic features. Recall and F i value increased when phenotypic features with one degree of hierarchical separation to those extracted were included (mean CNLP recall with inexact matches 0.29, SD 0.22, range 0-1; mean CNLP Fi with inexact matches 0.12, SD 0.08, range 0-0.38; mean CNLP Fi with exact matches 0.06, SD 0.05, range 0-0.23), indicating that, by design, an autonomous system should include hierarchical parents of extracted terms (Figure 5). [00141] Traditionally, genetic diseases have been clinically diagnosed by the identification of one or more pathognomonic phenotypic features. Such phenotypic features have high information content (IC, the logarithm of the probability of that phenotypic feature being observed in all OMIM™ diseases; Figure 2). A potential concern was that phenotypic features extracted by CNLP would have less information content than those prioritized manually by experts during interpretation. However, among the 101 children, the mean IC of CNLP phenotypic features (8.1, SD 2.0, range 2.6-11.4) was significantly higher than manual (7.8, SD 2.0, range 2. 1-11.4; P=0.003, Mann- Whitney U test) or OMIM™ phenotypic features (7.3, SD 1.7, range 3.2-11.4; P<0.0001, Mann- Whitney U test, Figure 3E). The inventors note that the mean IC correlated significantly with number of phenotypic features extracted manually and by CNLP (Spearman's rho 0.24, P=0.02 and Spearman’s rho 0.44, P<0.0001, respectively; Figure 3C). The mean IC of CNLP phenotypic features was higher than manual phenotypic features (Figure 3F), and the mean IC correlated significantly with number of phenotypic features extracted by CNLP (Spearman's rho 0.30, P<0.0001; Figure 3G). [00142] Retrospective performance of an autonomous system for diagnosis of childhood genetic diseases. [00143] The remaining steps in automated diagnosis of genetic diseases were to combine the automated ranking of the patient’s CNLP phenome with respect to all genetic diseases, together with the automated ranking of the pathogenicity of all their genomic variants based on literature knowledge and in silico tools (Figure 1, Figure 6). The inventors wrote scripts to transfer the patient’s CNLP-derived phenotypic features and genomic variants automatically to autonomous interpretation software (MOON™, Diploid). MOON™ identified the phenotypic features associated with each genetic disease by natural language processing of the medical literature. Typically, this was a larger set of phenotypic features than those listed in the OMIM™ Clinical Synopsis. MOON™ then compared the patient’s phenotypic features with those associated with each genetic disease and rank-ordered their likelihood of causing the child’s illness. [00144] The inventors also wrote scripts to transfer a patient’s nucleotide and structural variants automatically from the DRAGEN™ platform to MOON as soon as it finished, without user intervention. For rapid genome sequencing, there was a mean of 4,742,595 nucleotide variants and 19.3 structural variants (SVs) and exome sequencing had a mean of 39,066 nucleotide variants and 10.3 SVs per patient. Of these, MOON™ retained 67,589 nucleotide variants and 12 SVs, and 791 nucleotide variants and 4.5 SVs, for rapid genome and exome sequencing, respectively, that had allele frequencies <2% and affected known disease genes. A Bayesian framework and probabilistic model in MOON™ ranked the pathogenicity of these variants with 15 in silico prediction tools, ClinVar™ assertions, and inheritance pattern-based allele frequencies. In singleton and family trio analyses, a mean of five and three provisional diagnoses were ranked, respectively (Table 6). Since MOON™ was optimized for sensitivity, it shortlisted a median of 6 nucleotide variants per diagnosed subject (range 2-24), and often shortlisted false positive diagnoses in cases considered negative by manual interpretation. Both were largely remedied, however, by processing the MOON™ output in InterVar™ software, and retaining only pathogenic and likely pathogenic variants. InterVar™ classified variants with regard to 18 of the 28 consensus pathogenicity recommendations, specifically triaging variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Automated interpretation took a median of five minutes from transfer of variants and HPO terms to display of the provisional diagnosis and supporting evidence, including patient phenotypic features matching that disorder, for laboratory director review. In four timed runs, the time from blood or blood spot receipt to display of the correct diagnosis as the top ranked variant was 19: 14-20:25 hours (median 19:38 hours, Table 1, retrospective cases). This conformed well to a daily clinical operation cycle: sample receipt in the morning enabled library preparation in the afternoon, genome sequencing overnight, and provisional reporting early the following morning for laboratory director review. [00145] The inventors retrospectively examined the concordance between the autonomous system and prior, team-based, manual expert interpretation in 95 of the 101 children, diagnosed with 97 of the 105 genetic diseases. The inventors excluded 8 findings that had been reported but that were considered incidental (without current evidence of any of the expected phenotypic features). This cohort was diverse in race and ancestry. Eleven diagnoses were associated with structural variants, and 86 with nucleotide variants. No training patients were included in the test set. In two patients, a revised clinical report was issued of a new diagnosis (infant 6007, EIEE9, Xp22 del, and patient 6033, Cockayne syndrome B, ERCC6 p.Gly528Glu and c.-15+3G>T, which was validated by functional studies). Therefore, initial expert manual interpretation had a recall of 98% (95 of 97). Although the inventors did not re-analyze manual diagnoses, none of them had been demoted in the period since initially reported clinically. The autonomous diagnostic system had precision of 99% (93 of 94) and recall of 97% (94 of 97). For nucleotide and structural variants, the median rank of the correct diagnosis was first (range 1 -4 nucleotide variants; range 1-13 SV; Table 6). [00146] The three false negative autonomous diagnoses included the following cases. [00147] Infant 6159, with autosomal dominant Alport syndrome (COL4A4 C.4715OT, р.Prol572Leu), had hematuria, nephrotic syndrome, glomerulonephritis, hypertension, and anasarca. OMIM™ indicated CO£4/14-associatcd Alport syndrome (CAS) was autosomal recessive, and p.Prol572Leu was recorded as pathogenic in ClinVar™ for autosomal recessive Alport syndrome. There are, however, a large number of reports of autosomal dominant CAS. The variant was maternally inherited. Since the infant’s mother was asymptomatic, the inventors assumed that she exhibited incomplete penetrance of autosomal dominant CAS, as has been reported. The autonomous system classified the infant as a carrier for autosomal recessive CAS. [00148] Infant 253 had autosomal dominant optic atrophy plus syndrome (OPA1 с.556+lG>A). The autonomous system did not rank this variant because of insufficient overlap of the 70 CNLP phenotypic features with the MOON™ disease phenotypic feature model. Recent reports indicate that OP Al can be associated with complex, severe multisystem mitochondrial disorders, similar to infant 253. [00149] Neonate 213 had dextrocardia and transposition of the great vessels. He received singleton genome sequencing, and was diagnosed manually with autosomal dominant visceral heterotaxy type 5 associated with a likely pathogenic variant in NODAL (c.778G>A; p.Gly260Arg). This variant was filtered out by the autonomous system based on classification as a VUS by InterVar™ (based on PM1 - PP3 - PP5) and the presence of conflicting interpretations in ClinVar™, including a ‘Likely Benign’ assertion. [00150] When the relatively sparse phenotypic features selected by experts during manual interpretation were substituted for phenotypic features identified by CNLP, the recall of the autonomous system decreased (88%, 85 of 97). [00151] Prospective performance of an autonomous system for diagnosis of childhood genetic diseases. [00152] The inventors prospectively compared the performance of the autonomous diagnostic system with the fastest manual methods in seven seriously ill infants in intensive care units and three previously diagnosed infants (Table 1). The median time from blood sample to diagnosis with the autonomous platform was 19:56 hours (range 19: 10 - 31 :02 hours), compared with the median manual time of 48:23 hours (range 34:38 - 56:03hours). This included two automated runs which were delayed by operator error or data center downtime. The autonomous system coupled with InterVar™ post-processing made three diagnoses and no false positive diagnoses. All three diagnoses were confirmed by manual methods and Sanger sequencing. The first was for patient 352, a seven-week-old female, admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit with diabetic ketoacidosis. Rapid genome sequencing was performed on the singleton proband. In 19:11 hours, the autonomous system identified a previously unreported, heterozygous missense variant in the insulin gene (INS C.26OG, pPro9Arg), which is associated with autosomal dominant permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus (OMIM™ disease record 606176). According to ACMG/AMP pathogenicity criteria, the variant was of uncertain significance (VUS). After 42:04 hours, parent-child trio sequencing with the fastest manual methods confirmed the result and showed the variant to be de novo, which changed the variant classification to likely pathogenic. [00153] The second diagnosis was made in patient 7052, a previously healthy 17-month-old boy admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit with pseudomonal septic shock, metabolic acidosis, echthyma gangrenosum and hypogammaglobulinemia. Singleton, proband, rapid sequencing and automated interpretation identified a pathogenic hemizygous variant in the Bruton tyrosine kinase gene (BTK c.974+2T>C) associated with X-linked agammaglobulinemia 1 (OMIM™: 300755) in 22:04 hours. This was 16:33 hours earlier than a concurrent trio run with the fastest manual methods. The provisional result provided confidence in treatment with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (to maintain serum IgG >600 mg/dL) and six weeks of antibiotic treatment. This provisional diagnosis was verbally conveyed to the clinical team upon review of the autonomous result by a laboratory director. Clinical whole genome sequencing subsequently returned the same result and showed the variant to be maternally inherited. [00154] The third diagnosis was made inpatient 412, a 3 -day-old boy admitted to the neonatal ICU with seizures and a strong family history of infantile seizures responsive to phenobarbital. The autonomous system identified a likely pathogenic, heterozygous variant in the potassium voltage-gated channel, KQT-like subfamily, member 2 gene (KCNQ2 c.lO51C>G). This gene is associated with autosomal dominant benign familial neonatal seizures 1 (OMIM™ disease record 121200). The diagnosis was made in 20:53 hours, which was 27:30 hours earlier than a concurrent run with the fastest manual methods. A verbal provisional result was conveyed to the clinical team upon review of the result by a laboratory director as the diagnosis provided confidence in treatment with phenobarbital and changed the prognosis. [00155] For the remaining four patients, no diagnosis was evident with either manual or autonomous methods. [00156] DISCUSSION [00157] Previously, the fastest time to diagnosis by genome sequencing in clinical practice was 37 hours. The protocol was, however, extremely labor- and capital-intensive, and limited to one sample at a time. Here the inventors described a prototypic, autonomous system for genetic disease diagnosis in a median of 20: 10 hours requiring decreased user intervention and a throughput of up to two parent-child trios or six probands per run. Most decision making in ICUs is made deliberatively in morning rounds attended by a multidisciplinary healthcare team. Thus, a 20-hour diagnosis would return results to the on-call physician who ordered testing in time for morning rounds. This would simplify information transfer during rounds and facilitate management decisions. A 20-hour diagnosis is important in seriously ill infants as a majority of timely genomic diagnoses result in changes in ICU management. [00158] The autonomous platform for 20-hour diagnosis of genetic diseases was designed to meet the needs of acutely ill infants in ICUs with diseases of unknown etiology. It has been estimated that 10-12% of infants admitted to regional ICUs may benefit from same-day diagnosis and implementation of targeted treatments. In 2014, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) permitted provisional reporting in seriously ill children when the diagnosis indicated changes in management that could improve outcome, and where a delay in reporting until confirmation of results by Sanger sequencing could result in avoidable morbidity or mortality. In our previous experience, provisional diagnoses were reported in 17% (114 of 684) of genome sequencing cases, with a mean time to report of 3.6 days. Presentations in which 20-hour diagnoses were likely to be associated with improved outcomes included neonatal epileptic encephalopathies, metabolic diseases (as in patient 352), septic shock possibly associated with immunodeficiency (as in patient 7052), organ failure, and when extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation is considered in the absence of a known disease etiology. Thus, a circumscribed application of an autonomous diagnostic system is to identify provisional diagnoses for laboratory director review, earlier than standard rapid testing, in a subset of neonatal and pediatric ICU admissions in which morbidity or mortality is likely to be avoided by early institution of targeted treatment. It will be important to evaluate the proportion of seriously ill patients and extent of urgent healthcare settings in which a 20-hour diagnosis would inform acute interventions and for which a longer time to result would not be effective. [00159] This disclosure demonstrated the automated extraction of a deep, digital phenome from the EHR. The analytic performance of the extraction of phenotypic features from the EHRs of children with genetic diseases by CNLP herein was considerably better than prior reports, and appeared adequate for replacement of expert manual EHR review. CNLP extracted 27-fold more phenotypic features from the EHR than those selected by experts during manual interpretation, consistent with prior reports. In addition, the mean information content of the CNLP phenome was greater than that of the phenotypic features selected by experts during manual interpretation. The superiority of deep CNLP phenomes was shown by substantially greater overlap with the expected (OMIM™) clinical features than by those selected by experts during manual interpretation. Phenotypic features selected by experts during manual interpretation had poorer diagnostic utility than CNLP-based phenotypic features when used in the autonomous diagnostic system. This concurred with two recent reports of genomic sequencing of cohorts of patients in which the rate of diagnosis was greater when more than fifteen phenotypic features were used at time of interpretation that when one to five were used. [00160] Herein the inventors described fully automated interpretation of sequencing results. In 95 seriously ill children, the autonomous system had 97% recall and 99% precision in recapitulating 97 genetic disease diagnoses made by a team of experts. Where the system suggested more than one diagnosis, the median rank of a variant associated with the correct diagnosis was first. The three false negative autonomous results had explanations that either can be addressed by parameter adjustments or were of types that cause assessments of variant pathogenicity to vary between laboratories. Prospectively, molecular laboratory directors determined that the autonomous system made correct provisional diagnoses in three of seven seriously ill ICU infants (100% precision and recall) with an average time saving of 22: 19 hours. In light of insufficient expert analysts, molecular laboratory directors, medical geneticists and genetic counselors to expand genomic diagnosis to regional ICU infants worldwide, such diagnostic performance was sufficient to suggest several, high throughput clinical applications. Supervised autonomous systems may provide effective first-tier, provisional diagnoses, allowing valuable cognitive resources to be reserved for unsolved or difficult cases, manual curation of variants, and clinical report generation which includes a summary of medical management literature. Secondly, in the roughly 67% of cases where manual interpretation fails to provide a diagnosis, it is difficult to know when analysis should be considered complete. With further development, autonomous diagnostic systems could provide an independent, objective analysis in such cases. Thirdly, autonomous systems could re-analyze unsolved cases periodically. This is burdensome to perform manually since 250 new gene-disease associations and 9,200 new variant-disease associations are reported annually. However, re-analysis yields up to 8-10% new diagnoses per annum. Automated re-analysis could include updated CNLP of the EHR, which would useful when the phenotype evolves with time. A known risk of genetic testing is over-treatment as a result of overdiagnosis. Periodic, autonomous re-analysis would also detect cases where the diagnosis is changed as a result of reclassification of the causality of the gene or pathogenicity of the variant and/or phenome overlap was minimal. An autonomous system, akin to an autopilot, can decrease the labor intensity of genome interpretation. 106 years after the invention of the autopilot, however, two pilots are still employed in cockpits of commercial aircraft. Likewise, a skilled team will still be required to curate the literature and make tough decisions/classifications for the foreseeable future. [00161] The autonomous system has several limitations. Firstly, system performance is partly predicated on the quality of the history and physical examination, and completeness of the write-up in EHR notes. The performance of the autonomous diagnostic system, though acceptable, is anticipated to improve with additional training, increased mapping of human phenotype ontology terms associated with genetic diseases in OMIM™, Orphanet™ and the literature to SNOMED-CT™, the native language of the CNLP, inclusion of phenotypes from structured EHR fields, measurements of phenotype severity (such as phenotype term frequency in EHR documents), and material negative phenotypes (pathognomonic phenotypes whose absence rules out a specific diagnosis). As part of this, a quantitative data model is needed for improved multivariate matching of non-independent phenotypes that appropriately weights related, inexact phenotype matches. Although possible, the autonomous system did not take advantage of commercial variant database annotations, such as the Human Gene Mutation Database™, and does not eliminate the labor-intensive literature curation which is the current standard for variant reporting. Diagnosis of genetic diseases due to structural variants requires standard library preparation and additional software steps that add several hours to turnaround time. Because the autonomous system utilizes the same knowledge of allele and disease frequencies as manual interpretation, which under-represent minority races or ethnicities, pathogenicity assertions in the latter groups are less certain. Likewise, as the autonomous system utilizes the same consensus guidelines for variant pathogenicity determination as manual interpretation, it is subject to the same general limitations of assertions of pathogenicity. [00162] The major barriers to widespread adoption of genomic medicine for seriously ill infants with disorders of unknown etiology are an untrained medical workforce and substantial shortage of domain experts, including medical geneticists, molecular laboratory directors and genetic counselors. Manual genome analysis and interpretation are very labor intensive. In addition, the extreme number of rare genetic diseases precludes easy domain mastery by non-experts. Thus, pediatric genomic medicine may be one of the first clinical areas where artificial intelligence is necessary for its general adoption. Diagnosis of seriously ill infants with diseases of unknown etiology represents an early application of autonomous diagnostic systems as such cases are abundant in ICUs and a faster time to result is critical for optimal outcomes. [00163] FIGURE LEGENDS [00164] Figure 1. Flow diagrams of the diagnosis of genetic diseases by standard and rapid genome sequencing. A. Steps in conventional clinical diagnosis of a single patient by genome sequencing (GS) with manual analysis and interpretation in a minimum of 26 hours, but with mean time-to-diagnosis of sixteen days (8, 16-30). Genome sequencing was requested manually. The inventors extracted genomic DNA manually from blood, assessed DNA quality (QA), and normalized the DNA concentration manually. The inventors then manually prepared TruSeq PCR-free DNA™ sequencing libraries, performed QA again, and normalized the library concentration manually. Genome sequencing was performed on the HiSeq™ 2500 system (Illumina) in rapid run mode (RRM). Sequences were manually transferred to the DRAGEN™ Platform version 1 (Illumina) for alignment and variant calling. Phenotypic features were identified by manual review of the electronic health record (EHR). Variant files and phenotypic features were loaded manually into Opal™ software (Fabric), and interpretation was performed manually. B. Steps in autonomous diagnosis of up to six patients concurrently in a minimum of 19 hours (Figure 6). Steps included: 1. Automation of order entry from the EHR with a portal; 2. Manual or robotic preparation of Nextera DNA Flex™ sequencing libraries directly from blood in 2.5 hours; 3. Rapid 40-fold coverage genome sequencing in 15.5 hours with the NovaSeq 6000 system and SI flowcell (Illumina); 4. Automation of sequence transfer, alignment and variant calling in one hour with the DRAGEN platform, version 2 (Illumina); 5. Automated extraction of patient phenomes from the EHR by clinical natural language processing (CNLP), and translation to human phenotype ontology (HPO) terms in 20 seconds; 6. Automated transfer of variant and phenotype files, and automated Bayesian comparison of the CNLP phenome with those of all genetic diseases (MOON, Diploid), combined with automated assessment of the pathogenicity of their genomic variants based on aggregated literature knowledge and in silico predictive tools (InterVar) and automated display of the highest ranked provisional diagnosis(es). [00165] Figure 2. Clinical natural language processing can extract a more detailed phenome than manual EHR review or OMIM™ clinical synopsis. A. Example CNLP of a sentence from the EHR of an eight-day-old baby (patient 341) with maple syrup urine disease, showing four extracted HPO terms. B. Hierarchical display of HPO phenotypic features extracted by manual review of the EHR of neonate 341, CNLP (red), and expected phenotypic features (from the OMIM™ Clinical Synopsis, blue). Yellow circles: Phenotypic features extracted by both CNLP and expert review. Purple circles: Phenotypic overlap between CNLP and OMIM™. Grey circles: The location of parent terms of identified phenotypic features within the HPO hierarchy. The Information Content (IC) was defined by IC (phenotype) = - log^phenotype , where ^phenotype was the probability of observing the exact term or one of its subclasses across all diseases in OMIM™. Information content increases from top (general) to bottom (specific). [00166] Figure 3. Comparison of observed and expected phenotypic features of 375 children with suspected genetic diseases. A-D: 101 children diagnosed with 105 genetic diseases. E- H: 274 children with suspected genetic diseases that were not diagnosed by genomic sequencing. Phenotypic features identified by manual EHR review are in yellow, those identified by CNLP are in red, and the expected phenotypic features, derived from the OMIM™ Clinical Synopsis, are in blue. A. Frequency distribution of the number of phenotypic features (log-transformed) in 101 children with genetic diseases. The mean number of features detected per patient was 4.2 (SD 2.6, range 1-16) for manual review, 116.1 (SD 93.6, range 13-521) for CNLP, and 27.3 (SD 22.8, range 1-100) for OMIM™ (OMIM™ vs Manual: P<.0001; CNLP vs OMIM™: P<.0001; CNLP vs Manual: P0.0001; paired Wilcoxon tests). B. Frequency distribution of information content (IC) for each phenotypic feature set in 101 diagnosed patients. The mean IC was 7.8 (SD 2.0, range 2.1-11.4) for manual review, 8.1 (SD 2.0, range 2.6-11.4) for CNLP, and 7.3 (SD 1.7, range 3.2-11.4) for OMIM™ (Manual vs OMIM™: P<.0001; CNLP vs OMIM™: P<.0001; Manual vs CNLP: PH).003; Mann-Whitney U tests). C. Correlation of the mean information content of phenotypic terms with the number of phenotypic terms in each patient. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient (rs) was 0.24 for manually extracted phenotypic features (PH).02), 0.44 for CNLP (P<0.0001) and -0.001 for OMIM™ (P>0.05). D. Venn diagram showing overlap of phenotypic terms by the three methods for diagnosed patients. Phenotypic features extracted by CNLP overlapped expected OMIM™ phenotypic features (mean 4.31 terms, SD 4.59, range 0-32) significantly more than manually (mean 0.92 terms, SD 1.02, range 0-4; P<0.0001, paired Wilcoxon test for the difference in the number of terms that overlap with OMIM™). E. Frequency distribution of the number of phenotypic features (log-transformed) in 274 children with suspected genetic diseases that were not diagnosed by genomic sequencing. The mean number of features was 3.0 (SD 1.9, range 1-12) for manual review and 90.7 (SD 81.1, range 6-482) for CNLP (CNLP vs Manual: P<0.0001, paired Wilcoxon test). F. Frequency distribution IC for each phenotypic feature set in 273 undiagnosed patients. The mean IC was 7.7 (SD 2.1, range 2. 1-11.4) for manual review and 8.1 (SD 2.0, range 2.6- 11.4) for CNLP (Manual-CNLP: P<0.0001 , Mann- Whitney U test). G. Correlation of the mean information content of phenotypic terms with the number of phenotypic terms in each patient. rs was 0.02 for manually extracted phenotypic features (P>0.05) and 0.30 for CNLP (P<0.0001). H. Venn diagram showing overlap of phenotypic terms for undiagnosed patients by CNLP and manual methods. [00167] Figure 4. Venn diagram showing overlap of observed and expected patient phenotypic features in 95 children diagnosed with 97 genetic diseases. Phenotypic features identified by expert manual EHR review during interpretation are shown in yellow. Phenotypic features identified by CNLP are shown in red. The expected phenotypic features are derived from the OMIM™ Clinical Synopsis and are shown in blue. The inventors excluded eight diagnoses that were considered to be incidental findings. Phenotypes extracted by CNLP overlapped expected OMIM™ phenotypes (mean 4.55, SD 4.62, range 0-32) more than phenotypes that were manually extracted (mean 0.97, SD 1.03, range 0-4). [00168] Figure 5. Precision, recall, and F 1 -score of phenotypic features identified manually, by CNLP, and OMIM™. Data are from 101 children with 105 genetic diseases. Precision (PPV) was given by tp/tp+fp, where tp were true positives and fp were false positives. Recall (sensitivity) was given by tp/tp+fn, where fn were false negatives. A. Precision and recall calculated based on exact phenotypic feature matches. Manual vs OMIM™ - Precision: mean 0.25, SD 0.30, range 0-1; Recall: mean 0.04, SD 0.06, range 0-0.25; Fi: mean 0.07, SD 0.09, range 0-0.40. eNLP vs OMIM™ - Precision: mean 0.04, SD 0.03, range 0-0.15; Recall: mean 0.20, SD 0.16, range 0-0.67; Fi: mean 0.06, SD 0.05, range 0-0.23. Manual vs eNLP - Precision: mean 0.71, SD 0.28, range 0-1; Recall: mean 0.03, SD 0.02, range 0-0.1; Fi: mean 0.06, SD 0.04, range 0-0.17. B. Precision and recall calculated allowing for inexact phenotype matches (terms with one degree of hierarchical separation). Manual vs OMIM™ - Precision: mean 0.4, SD 0.34, range 0-1; Recall: mean 0.09, SD 0.13, range 0-1; Fi: mean 0.13, SD 0.13, range 0-0.57. eNLP vs OMIM™ - Precision: mean 0.09, SD 0.07, range 0-0.38; Recall: mean 0.29, SD 0.22, range 0-1; Fi: mean 0.12, SD 0.08, range 0-0.38. Manual vs eNLP - Precision: mean 0.79, SD 0.24, range 0-1; Recall: mean 0.06, SD 0.04, range 0-0.19; Fi: mean 0.11, SD 0.07, range 0-0.32. [00169] Figure 6. Flow diagram of the software components of the autonomous system for provisional diagnosis of genetic diseases by rapid genome sequencing. Abbreviations: GS: rapid whole genome sequencing; GEMS: Genome management system; HPO: Human Phenotype Ontology; LIMS: Clarity laboratory information management system. Data types were as follows: *: HL7/FHIR; f : JSON; J: bcl; □: vcf. [00170] SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS (EXAMPLE 1) [00171] TABLES [00172] Table 1. Duration and metrics for the major steps in the diagnosis of genetic diseases by genome sequencing using rapid standard methods (Std.) and a rapid, autonomous platform (Auto.). Primary (1°) and secondary (2°) Analysis: conversion of raw data from base call to FASTQ format, read alignment to the reference genomes and variant calling. Tertiary (3°) Analysis Processing: Time to process variants and phenotypic features and make them available for manual interpretation in Opal interpretation software (Fabric Genomics) or to display a provisional, automated diagnosis(es) in MOON interpretation software (Diploid). Dev. Delay: global developmental delay. PPHN: Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn. HIE: Hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy, n.a.: not applicable. *Included time to thaw a second set of NovaSeq reagents, f Included 10:20 hours of downtime, with manual restarting of the job, due to data center relocation. Patients 263, 6124 and 3003 were retrospectively analyzed by the autonomous system. Patient 263 was analyzed two times by the autonomous system. Patients 6194, 290, 352, 362, 412, and 7072 were prospectively analyzed by both autonomous and standard diagnostic methods. [00173] Table 2. Comparison of the analytic performance of standard and new library preparation, and standard and rapid genome sequencing in retrospective samples. The standard library preparation and genome sequencing methods were TruSeq™ PCR-free library preparation and 2 x 100 nt sequencing on a NovaSeq™ 6000 with S2 flow cell, respectively. The new library preparation and genome sequencing methods were Nextera Flex™ library preparation and 2 x 100 nt sequencing on a NovaSeq™ 6000 with SI flow cell, respectively. The “Median” column is the median of runs R17AA978, R17AA978, R17AA059, and R17AA119. Controls 1 and 2 are mean values for five and fifty-two samples, respectively. Analytic performance of variant calls was assessed in sample NA12878, with comparison to the NIST Genome-in-a-bottle results (76). Note: The NA12878 control run with the SI flowcell and TruSeq™ PCR free library (far right) was 2 x 151 nt. Abbreviations: nt: Nucleotides; FC: flowcell; Gb: gigabase; Q: Quality score; OMIM: Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man; QC: Quality Control; CD: Coding Domain; Ti/Tv ratio: ratio of the number of nucleotide transitions to the number of nucleotide transversions; PPV: Positive predictive value; SNV: single nucleotide variants; indels: nucleotide insertion-deletion variants. [00174] Table 3. Comparison of the analytic performance of standard and new library preparation and genome sequencing methods in seven matched prospective samples. The standard library preparation and genome sequencing methods were TruSeq™ PCR-free library preparation and NovaSeq™ 6000 with S2 flow cell, respectively, with the exception of subjects 7052 and 412, where the library preparation was done with the KAPA Hyper™ kit. The new library preparation and genome sequencing methods were Nextera™ Flex library preparation and NovaSeq™ 6000 with S 1 flow cell, respectively. Abbreviations: L: lane; R: read; nt: Nucleotides; Gb: gigabase; Q: Quality score; OMIM: Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man; QC: Quality Control; CD: Coding Domain; Ti/Tv ratio: ratio of the number of nucleotide transitions to the number of nucleotide transversions. [00175] Table 4. Characteristics of sixteen children with genetic diseases used to train CNLP. Abbreviations: EIEE: Early Infantile Epileptic Encephalopathy; AD: Autosomal Dominant; DN: de novo; P: Pathogenic; LP: Likely Pathogenic; M: Male; F: Female; S: Singleton; D: Duo; T: Trio; I: Inherited; XLD: X-linked dominant; MECRN: Metabolic encephalomyopathic crises, recurrent, with rhabdomyolysis, cardiac arrhythmias, and neurodegeneration; U: undetermined; OMIM: Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man. [00176] Table 5. Precision and recall of phenotypic features extracted by CNLP from EHRs in ten children with genetic diseases. Precision=tp/tp+fp. Recall=tp/tp+fn. Abbreviations: EIEE: Early Infantile Epileptic Encephalopathy; AD: Autosomal Dominant; AR: Autosomal Recessive; DN: de novo; P: Pathogenic; LP: Likely Pathogenic; S: Singleton; T: Trio; I: Inherited; U: undetermined; OMIM: Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man; CF: Clinical Feature. [00177] Table 6. Number of structural variants shortlisted by MOON™ and rank of the causal variant in MOON™ in 11 children with genetic diseases. All samples were run as singletons. Abbreviations: gVCF: Genomic variant call file; rWES: rapid whole exome sequencing; rWGS®: rapid whole genome sequencing; SV: structural variant. [00178] Table 7. Summary statistics of provisional diagnoses reported for rapid clinical genome sequencing. Total probands refers to children tested. EXAMPLE 2 AUTOMATED SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR POPULATION-SCALE DIAGNOSIS AND ACUTE MANAGEMENT GUIDANCE FOR GENETIC DISEASES [00179] In this example, a system of automated diagnosis and acute management guidance for genetic diseases in critically ill children in 13.5 hours is described that will facilitate populationscale implementation. [00180] EXPERIMENTAL MATERIALS AND METHODS [00181] Study Design. [00182] This study reports results from human subject research approved by the institutional review board at Rady Children’s Hospital, San Diego, and the University of California-San Diego, which were performed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Informed, written consent was obtained from at least one parent or guardian of the participating infants. Families were not compensated for participation. Datasets were obtained from four retrospectively studied infants (age less than one year, two male and two female) and three prospectively studied male neonates (aged less than 28 days) to test the analytic, diagnostic, and clinical management performance of the 13.5-hour method. Ten cases (six male and four female, seven neonates, two older infants, and one 14-year old) used to verify the analytic performance of the clinical natural language processing were identified from research study populations. Four retrospective cases were identified from recent clinical operations at Rady Children’s Institute for Genomic Medicine (RCIGM). All had received recent diagnoses by rWGS®, performed in the RCIGM CLIA/CAP laboratory, and blood sample retains were used for comparative re-analysis by the 13.5-hour method. Three prospective cases were also ascertained from RCIGM clinical operations. Prospective cases received both standard rWGS® performed according to CLIA/CAP standards and the prototypic 13.5-hour method concomitantly. Provisional results from the prototypic 13.5-hour method were returned to the attending neonatologist before confirmation by the standard method in accordance with a determination of “nonsignificant risk” by the FDA in response to an Investigational Device Exemption pre-submission enquiry for the antecedent study in April 2014. This study also reports results of a quality improvement project for diagnostic rWGS® performed at Rady Children’s Institute for Genomic Medicine (RCIGM) laboratory in conformity with the College of American Pathologists (CAP) and Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) standards. [00183] Natural Language Processing and Phenotype Extraction. [00184] Human Phenotype Ontology™ (HPO™, github.com/obophenotype/human-phenotype- ontology/blob/master/src/ontology/reports/hpodiff_hp_2021 -06- 13_to_hp_2021 -08-02.xlsx) terms for cases with a Rady Children’s Hospital Epic EHR were automatically extracted in four steps by natural language processing (NLP) of text fields: (1) Clinical records were exported from the Epic™ EHR data warehouse, transformed into a compatible format (JSON), and loaded into CLiX ENRICH™ v.6.7 (CliniThink™ Ltd.). (2) A semi-automated query map was created, with HPO terms (and their synonyms) as the input and CLiX™ queries as the output. The HPO terms were passed through the CLiX™ encoding engine, resulting in creation of CLiX™ postcoordinated SNOMED CT™ (confhience.ihtsdotools.org/display/RMT/SNOMED+CT+January+2022+International+Edition+ -+SNOMED+Intemational+Release+notes) expressions for each recognized HPO term or synonym. Where matches were not exact, manual review was used to validate the generated CLiX™ queries. Where there was no match or incorrect matches, new content was added to the Clinithink™ SNOMED CT™ extension and terminology files to ensure appropriate matches between phenotypes in HPO and those in SNOMED CT™. This was an iterative process that resulted in a CLiX™ query set that covered 60% (7706) of 12,786 HPO terms. (3) EHR documents containing unstructured data were passed through the NLP™ engine. The NLP™ processing engine read the unstructured text and encoded it in structured format as post-coordinated SNOMED CT™ expressions. These encoded data were then interrogated by the CLiX™ query technology (abstraction). To trigger an HPO query, the encoded data had to contain either an exact match or one of its logical descendants (exploiting the parent-child hierarchy of the SNOMED CT™ ontology), resulting in a list of HPO terms for each patient. EHR data for cases from partner hospitals was imported as machine-readable .pdf files to CliX™ ENRICH™ v.6.7. In cases with more than one .pdf file, they were combined into a .zip file for upload to CLiX™ ENRICH™. The NLP™ engine read the unstructured text and encoded it as HPO terms, resulting in a list of observed terms for each patient.55 The analytic performance of NLP by CLiX™ ENRICH™ v.6.7 and v.6.5 was compared with manual chart review by two physician experts for ten test cases. [00185] Rapid Diagnostic Whole Genome Sequencing. [00186] The standard clinical rWGS® methods were DNA isolation from EDTA blood samples with the EZ1™ DSP DNA Blood Kit (Qiagen, Cat. No. 62124), followed by library preparation with the polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-free KAPA HyperPrep™ kit (Roche, Cat. No. KK8505), and 2 x 101 nucleotide (nt) sequencing onNovaSeq™ 6000 instruments (Illumina, Cat. No. 20013850) with SI flowcells, v.l reagents, and standard recipe (Illumina, Cat. No. 20028319). The 19.5-hour rWGS® methods were library preparation from EDTA blood samples with Nextera™ DNA Flex Library Prep kits (Illumina, Cat. No. 20018705) and five cycles of PCR, 2 x 101 nt sequencing without indexing on NovaSeq™ 6000 instruments with SI flowcells, v.1.0 reagents, and a custom recipe with accelerated cycle time (Illumina, Cat. No. 20012864), and sequence alignment and nucleotide variant detection with the DRAGEN™ Platform (v.2.5.1, Illumina, Cat. No. 20060401/ [00187] For 13.5-hour rWGS®, sequencing libraries were prepared directly from EDTA blood samples or five 3 mm2 punches from a Nucleic Card Matrix dried blood spot (ThermoFisher, Cat. No. 4473977), without intermediate DNA purification, using magnetic bead-linked transposomes (DNA PCR-free Prep kit, Tagmentation, Illumina, Cat. No. 20041795). The length of each incubation step was maximally reduced from those in the manufacturer’s protocol (Figure 8). The shorter incubations normalized library output, which enabled simpler, faster measurement of library concentration with a KAPA™ Library Quantification Kit (Roche, Cat. No. 07960140001). 2 x 101 cycle sequencing-by-synthesis was performed onNovaSeq™ 6000 instruments (Illumina, Cat. No. 20013850) with a custom instrument run recipe with maximally reduced cycle time consistent with retention of sequence quality. Sequencing used SP flowcells and version 1.5 reagents (Illumina, Cat. No. 20040719), which were more cost effective and delivered better sequence quality than v.1.0 reagents. Sequences were aligned to human genome assembly GRCh37 (hgl9), and variants identified and genotyped with the DRAGEN™ platform v.3.7.5 (Illumina). Automated variant interpretation was performed in parallel using MOON™ (InVitae), GEM™ (Fabric Genomics), and the Illumina TruSight™ Software Suite (TSS™, Illumina).16,39 Inputs were the variant call file (vcf), list of observed HPO terms, and patient metadata (coded identifier, name, EHR number, ordering physician, date of birth, location, relationship to proband). All three software platforms (MOON™, GEM™, and TSS™) generated a list of potential provisional diagnoses by sequentially filtering and ranking variants using decision trees, Bayesian models, neural networks, and natural language processing. The three software platforms ranked variants according to phenotypic match, pathogenicity, and rarity (Table 12). For generalizable, high throughput clinical use, each of these components was integrated with a custom laboratory information management system (LIMS™, L7 Inc.) and custom analysis pipeline (Axolotl™ v.5.0, Rady Children’s Institute for Genomic Medicine) that automated data transfers between steps. [00188] Measurement of Analytic Performance of rWGS®. [00189] The analytic performance of the new rWGS® methods was compared with prior clinical rWGS® methods in two reference DNA samples (NA12878, catalog.coriell.org/0/Sections/Search/Sample_Detail,aspx?Ref=NA 12878, and NA24385, catalog.coriell.org/0/Sections/Search/Sample_Detail.aspx?Ref=NA24385&Product=DNA) using NIST gold standard variant sets for SNVs and indels (NISTv4.1, ftp- trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/giab/ftp/release/), and SVs and CNVs (NISTv0.6, ftp- trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ReferenceSamples/giab/data/AshkenazimTrio/analysis/NIST_SVs_Integr ation_v0.6/) and Witty. er vO.3.4 (github.com/Illumina/witty.er/releases). [00190] Gene and Intervention Curation. [00191] 358 genes associated with 563 critical, childhood-onset illness with effective treatments were identified by literature review, subspecialist nomination and rapid precision medicine experience (data not shown). Automated scripts were written to collect information about the gene, inheritance pattern, natural history and interventions from pubicly available information resources. Gene to disease mapping was done using OMIM™ (omim.org/) and Orphanet (orpha.net/consor/cgi-bin/Disease.php?lng=EN) mappings. Resources included OMIM™, Orphanet™, Clinical Trials™ (clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/home), ClinVar™ (ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/), clinical trial registries including the Cochrane database (cochranelibrary.com/central/about-central), DrugBank™ v5.0 (go.drugbank.com/releases/latest), Gene™ (ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene), Genetic and Rare Disease Information Center™ (GARD™) (rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases), GeneReviews™ (ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBKl 116/), Inxight:Drugs™ (drugs.ncats.io/substances), GHR™ (medlineplus.gov/genetics/gene/ghr/), MedGen™ (ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/medgen/), Medscape™ (reference.medscape.com/), NORD™ (rarediseases.org/for-patients-and-families/information-resources/rare-disease-information/), and PubMed™ (pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/). Scripts were also written to identify published literature relating to each condition and identify pertinent treatments (Genomenon™ Inc. Rancho Biosciences™, Epam™). Publications were included if they mentioned the condition, the specific variant identified, and a clinical intervention used to treat the condition. Intervention lists for each gene-condition association were curated manually for relevance and specificity to the intensive care setting. [00192] Expert Review Panel. [00193] The list of interventions for each gene-condition association was adjudicated by a group of expert reviewers. Reviewers were experts in the fields of clinical and biochemical genetics. Five reviewers in total were recruited for the first stage of interface development. Software for intervention review was developed using the RedCap™ interface (RedCap™, redcap.radygenomiclab.com/redcap_vlO.6.3/DataEntry/record_status_dashboard.php?pid=62), and reviewers were able to login via a web portal in order to review genes that had been curated by a combination of Al and manual curation. Expert consensus on curated interventions was required for the inclusion on the final user interface, as illustrated in Figure 9. In Phase 1 , reviewers were provided with a prototype set of 10 genes in order to test the reviewer interface, after which a concordance analysis was performed and the RedCap™ interface was extensively revised in response to reviewer feedback. The reviewers then reviewed the same 10 gene set again, with an additional 5 genes associated with pre-selected retrospective cases. Reviewers chose whether to retain or delete previously curated interventions, and indicated in what age group the intervention may be initiated, in what time frame after diagnosis the intervention would optimally be initiated, contraindications, efficacy, and level of evidence available in support of the intervention (Box 1). A set of core inclusion and exclusion criteria for interventions was drafted and revised by the group, as detailed in the Supplementary Materials. After initial review of the 15 gene pilot set, the interventions on which consensus was not reached were discussed in roundtable discussion. In Phase 2, reviewers were split into pairs, and each gene had one reviewer perform a primary review, and a second reviewer perform a secondary review (Figure 9). Any disagreements between the primary and secondary expert review were again discussed in the roundtable meeting with all reviewers, and only interventions that reached full consensus were included. The final list of interventions was collated after full consensus had been reached between all five reviewers. As a final quality control and assurance step, an independent expert performed a final quality check for each gene before moving it to the user interface pipeline. [00194] User Interface Development and Integration into Automated Pipeline. [00195] A web resource integrated the GTRxSM information resources and the adjudicated interventions (gtrx.rbsapp.net/). The user interface for GTRxSM was developed in partnership with Rancho Biosciences™. Automated scripts integrated the electronic acute disease management support system into MOON™ (Diploid), GEM™ (Fabric Genomics), and the Illumina TruSight™ Software Suite (Illumina). This provided an automated link to treatment guidance once a provisional genetic diagnosis was reached by the variant curation tool. The provisional management plan automatically generated by GTRxSM for each of the four retrospective cases were checked by a lab director and a clinician for accuracy. [00196] Data Availability. [00197] Source data are provided with this paper. The processed patient data generated in this study have been deposited in the Longitudinal Pediatric Data Resource™ (LPDR™) under accession code nbs000003.vl.p at nbstm.org/. LPDR™ data are available under restricted access since it is pseudonymized human subjects data that is subject to privacy and confidentiality issues, the terms of informed written consent documents, and state and federal laws. Qualified newborn screening researchers can obtain access by registration at nbstm.org/login?token- expired=true&rel=/tools/lpdr. The raw patient data are protected and not available due to data privacy and confidentiality laws. Anonymized and pseudonymized patient data generated in this study, subject to the terms of informed written consent documents, and state and federal laws, are provided in the Supplementary Information/Source Data file. Non-human subjects data generated in this study are provided in the Supplementary Information/Source Data file. NIST data used in this study are available at fip-trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/giab/ftp/release/, and ftp- trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ReferenceSamples/giab/data/AshkenazimTrio/analysis/NIST_SVs_Integr ation_v0.6/. [00198] Code Availability. [00199] Witty.er is available at github.com/Illumina/witty.er. InterVar™ is available at github.com/WGLab/InterVar. GTRxSM is available at gtrx.radygenomiclab.com/._CLIXEnrich™ is available from CliniThink™. Moon™ is available from Invitae or Diploid. The DRAGEN™ Platform and the Illumina TruSight™ Software Suite are available from Illumina. OPAL™ and GEMS™ are available from Fabric Genomics. The RCIGM portal, Axolotl™ pipeline, and L7 LIMS™ are available from https://github.com/rao-madhavrao-rcigm/gtrx. The GTRxSM REDCap™ instance are available from github.com/rao-madhavrao-rcigm/gtrx. [00200] RESULTS [00201] 13.5-hour Genome Sequencing. [00202] Genetic disease diagnosis by rWGS® in 19.5 hours is previously described. However, clinical usefulness was limited by lack of scalability and insensitivity for copy number variants (CNVs) or structural variants (SVs), which underpin 20% of genetic diagnoses in children in ICUs. Inclusive of CNV and SV detection, turnaround time was >30 hours, which was insufficient for the most rapidly progressive childhood genetic diseases, such as neonatal encephalopathies. rWGS® was re-engineered to improve scalability, turnaround time, analytic performance for CNVs and SVs, and generalization to other healthcare systems (Figure 8). [00203] First, ordering of rWGS® was simplified. Orders are placed directly through the Epic EHR (Figure 8). The test order and patient metadata is transferred from the EHR to a custom ordering portal. Second, a simpler, faster method of sequencing library preparation was developed that retained the capability to identify CNVs and SVs, using magnetic bead-linked transposomes (DNA polymerase chain reaction-free kit, Illumina). Incubation steps were maximally reduced from those in the manufacturer’s protocol (Figure 8). Resultant library preparation took an average of 45 minutes from purified genomic DNA, and 72 minutes from blood (Table 8). Thirdly, much faster 2 x 101 cycle sequencing-by-synthesis was developed on NovaSeq ™ 6000 instruments (Illumina, average 11 hours 12 minutes). This employed a custom instrument run recipe with maximally reduced cycle time, and SP flowcells, which were imaged only on one surface of each of two lanes. Fourthly, a faster method for sequence alignment and variant calling (average 34 minutes for 120 GB of singleton genome sequence) was developed that also had greatly improved analytic performance for SVs and CNVs (Dynamic Read Analysis for GENomics, DRAGEN ™ v.3.7, Illumina). Finally, for generalizable, scalable clinical use, each of these components (sample accessioning, library preparation, library quality assessment, sequencing and variant calling) was integrated with a custom laboratory information management system and custom analysis pipeline (Enterprise Science Platform™, L7 Informatics) that automated data transfers between steps. [00204] The analytic performance and reproducibility of the combined method was evaluated in reference DNA samples in which benchmark variant sets have been established by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). The average time from DNA sample to completion of variant calling was 12 hours and 42 minutes, 35% less than the previous minimum (Table 8). The analytic performance for single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertion-deletion oligonucleotide variants (indels) was also improved, with precision and recall values >99.4% (Table 9). [00205] The analytic performance of DRAGEN ™ v.3.7 for structural variants (SVs, size >50 nt) and CNVs (size >10 kb) was compared with the widely used methods Manta™ and CNVnator ™, respectively. The latter require 2 hours and 22 minutes longer cloud-based computation per sample than DRAGEN ™. The recall (sensitivity) of DRAGEN ™ was considerably superior for insertion SVs (average 27% with Manta™, 49% with DRAGEN ™) and deletion CNVs (average 9% with CNVnator™, 88% with DRAGEN ™, Table 9). Since the NIST reference sample contains only 33 CNVs, the latter values should not yet be regarded as general estimates of analytic performance. However, chromosomal microarray, the most widely used diagnostic test for CNVs only detected one deletion CNV in this sample (Chr 7: 142, 824, 207-142, 893 ,380del, 3% sensitivity), which was classified as benign. It should also be noted that the software used to calculate analytic performance for SV and CNV detection (Witty.Er), defines true positive matches more conservatively than in clinical diagnostic practice. [00206] Automated diagnosis of genetic diseases by genome sequencing. [00207] Four further steps were needed for automated diagnosis of genetic diseases by WGS. Firstly, the patients’ phenotypic features were automatically extracted from non-structured text fields in the electronic health record (EHR) using natural language processing (NLP, Clinithink™ Ltd.) through the date of enrollment for WGS. The analytic performance of NLP and detailed manual review were compared with EHRs of ten children who received WGS. NLP identified an average of 89.8 Human Phenotype Ontology™ (HPO™) features, including both exact matches and their hierarchical root terms (standard deviation (SD) 35.3, range 36-167; Table 10) per patient in ~20 seconds. Compared with manual review, which took several hours per record, the precision (positive predictive value, PPV) of NLP was 0.80 (SD 0.15, range 0.57 - 0.97) and recall (sensitivity) was 0.90 (SD 0.14, range 0.50 - 0.98). The performance of NLP in extraction of clinical features from EHRs and reasons for identification of false positive clinical features have been previously described. [00208] Secondly, for each patient, the extracted HPO terms observed in the patient at time of enrollment were compared with the known HPO™ terms for all 7,103 genetic diseases with known causative loci. Each genetic disease was assigned a likelihood of being the causative diagnosis based on the number of matching terms and their information content. Thirdly, the pathogenicity of each variant detected by WGS was calculated by database lookup, if previously described, and by prediction of variant consequence for the associated protein. Finally, a provisional genetic disease diagnosis was generated by rank ordering the integrated scores of phenotype similarity and diplotype pathogenicity. The provisional diagnosis contained none, one or a few genetic diseases. These four steps were integrated in three fully automated interpretation pipelines (InVitae MOON ™, Fabric GEM™, and Illumina TruSight™ Software Suite, (TSS ™)). [00209] The diagnostic performance and reproducibility of this rWGS® system was compared, including the three interpretation pipelines, with blood samples from four affected children who had recently been diagnosed with a genetic disease by standard, clinical rWGS® and manual interpretation (Table 8, 11). The automated systems correctly diagnosed the four infants. The average rank of the correct diagnosis was 1, 2 and 1 for MOON™, GEM™ and TSS™, respectively, and the ranges were 1-1, 1-4, and 1-1, respectively (Table 12). The mean number of candidate diagnoses returned were 16.5, 8 and 3.5 for MOON™, GEM™ and TSS™, respectively, and time to execution 10.3, 41.5 and 224.3 minutes, respectively (Table 12). The TSS™ time included DRAGEN™ 3.7 processing time, whereas the others did not. The average time from blood sample to provisional diagnosis result was 13 hours 20.5 minutes, and fastest time was 13 hours 13 minutes (Table 8). In each case, MOON™ had the fastest computation time. [00210] Development of an information resource for genetic diseases. Manual interpretation is followed by writing a report of WGS results that includes information pertaining to the genetic diagnosis. This typically takes a genome analyst, genetic counselor, and laboratory director one or two hours. Automated interpretation tools do not yet provide written reports. To make automated WGS more generalizable, an information resource was developed to automatically provide such information to front-line physician teams (Figure 9). First, the numerous, existing web-based information resources for genetic diseases were surveyed. Most were unstructured, incomplete, and not intended for use by front-line physicians. Datasets were obtained from Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM™), Orphanet™, Genetics Home Reference (GHR™, now MedLinePlus™), DrugBank™ v5.0, the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences resources (Inxight: Drugs™, Genetic and Rare Disease Information Center (GARD™), Medscape™, NORD’s Rare Disease Database™, the National Center for BI resources (Gene™, ClinVar™, ClinicalTrials.gov™, GeneReviews™, and MedGen™), the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews™, and PubMed™.46-58 Transformation pipelines were built with the Konstanz Information Miner™ (KNIME) to match entries, normalize, and merge them.59 Unifying gene definitions were from RefSeq™, and genetic disease definitions from mappings between OMIM™ and Orphanet™.46,47,60 OMIM™ identities were used except where there was only an Orphanet™ entry. Unifying HPO™ phenotypes were mapped to OMIM™, Orphanet™ and GARD™.46,47,61 A web resource, GTRxSM (gtrx.rbsapp.net/) was developed to automatically display this information and link it to automated WGS results on a gene-by-gene basis (Figure 9). [00211] Development of an electronic acute management support system. [00212] Clinical implementation of rWGS® has shown that rapid molecular diagnosis alone may be insufficient to improve outcomes in diseases with effective treatments that progress rapidly to severe morbidity or mortality if untreated. Front-line physicians are often unfamiliar with treatments for rare genetic diseases. Sub-specialist or multi-disciplinary consultation may materially delay treatment. Therefore, a virtual acute management guidance system for rare genetic diseases with effective treatments was developed, the Treatabolome™, that was integrated into the information resource described above (Figure 9). [00213] For common diseases, it would have been relatively straightforward to integrate DrugBank Plus™, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) indications, and additional resources such as InXight™ Drugs and ClinicalTrials.gov™. However, most drug treatments for rare childhood genetic diseases are prescribed off-label. Furthermore, specialized diets, dietary supplements, and surgeries, which are not subject to FDA review, are also critical components of treatment for rare childhood genetic diseases. Devices are another important class of intervention for children in ICUs. While devices are subject to FDA review, approvals are not tied to genetic disease diagnoses. Publicly available information resources were reviewed for rare childhood genetic disease interventions, including published clinical practice guidelines, OMIM™, Orphanet™, GHR™, GARD™, PubMed™, GeneReviews™, American College of Medical Genetics™ (ACMG™) Newborn Screening ACTion™ (ACT™) sheets, Acute Illness Materials™ developed by the New England Consortium of Metabolic Programs, and ActX™. A lack of broadly applicable instruments was discovered to measure rare genetic disease progression or outcomes, or orphan treatment effects, such as quality of life or real -world outcomes. Many genetic diseases lacked sufficient ground truth knowledge of variability in natural history if untreated, or relative effectiveness of standard of care treatments. Evidence of efficacy was generally short-term and from single-arm case reports or small case series. There was no consensus scheme for classification of the efficacy of treatments nor the quality of the evidence supporting efficacy. The best existing resource for treatment guidance for many different types of genetic diseases was GeneReviews™. However, it was unstructured and subject to many of these limitations. Content variability was compounded by review of each disease by a different set of experts. It did not review all childhood genetic diseases with effective treatments, and chapters were revised only every several years. It was necessary, therefore, to create a structured database of rare childhood genetic disease interventions that complied with the Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable (FAIR) guiding principles de novo. [00214] In light of substantial shortcomings of normalized knowledge of genetic disease treatments, the narrowest scope for an electronic acute disease management support system was defined (Figure 9). It was intended to guide initial, optimal treatment for critically ill children in ICUs at time of genetic disease diagnosis by rWGS®. It was limited to diseases with effective treatments and rapid progression in the absence of those treatments. It was designed for use by front-line intensivists, neonatologists and hospitalists during the time interval between return of rWGS® results and provision of authoritative subspecialist guidance or transfer to a tertiary or quaternary hospital. It was assumed that front-line physicians were unlikely to have treated a child with that disease in that setting before. It was also assumed that they would have limited genomic literacy, lack of familiarity with existing genetic disease information resources, and insufficient time to synthesize treatments by literature perusal. While limited in scope, interoperability with broader future use was sought. [00215] Second, 358 genes associated with 563 genetic diseases were identified, representing 8% of 7,103 single locus genetic diseases, that met the following criteria: acute, childhood presentations that were likely to lead to neonatal, pediatric or cardiovascular ICU admission; having somewhat effective treatments; high likelihood of rapid progression without treatment; and, diagnosable by rWGS® (Figures 9 and 10). They were identified by a survey of our clinical rWGS® experience in -3,500 cases, and from expanded newborn screening lists developed by several groups. [00216] Third, the minimal data elements needed by front-line physicians upon receipt of an rWGS® result were determined. In the setting of a newly diagnosed genetic disease in a critically ill child, they needed to know the indicated interventions, optimal time to administration, efficacy, evidence for efficacy, contraindications, and natural history without treatment (Box 1). It was assumed that adequate resources existed to provide guidance about drug dosing, frequency, route of administration, drug-drug interactions or labelled contraindications. [00217] Fourth, it was required that the virtual, acute disease management guidance system (GTRXSM) was authoritative and consensus-driven. For each genetic disease, the full text of all MEDLINE/PubMed references that mentioned a drug, device, diet or surgery used to treat the disease using three artificial-intelligence based search engines (Mastermind™, Genomenon™; Rancho Biosciences™, Epam™ Systems, Figure 9) were indexed. The resultant datasets were manually curated for relevance and specificity, and to extract the required data elements (data not shown). The manually curated datasets and links to the information resource were integrated into a custom Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap™) survey for expert review (Figure 9).74 Each disease and intervention were reviewed by a panel of five highly experienced, pediatric biochemical geneticists to answer seven categorical questions (Figure 9, Box 1). The first 15 genetic diseases and 200 associated interventions were independently reviewed by each expert. 52.8% of intervention reviews were concordant. Discordant responses were discussed virtually by the moderated panel (data not shown). After discussion, the panel agreed upon 189 (99%) of the first 190 (Figure 9), and retained 84 interventions. There were three reasons for rejection of the remaining 106 nominated interventions: inadequate evidence for efficacy (25%, 27), incorrect treatment for that disorder (27%, 23), and insufficient specificity to warrant inclusion (19%, 20). Reviewers also examined the age category in which each intervention was suitable (neonate, infant, child), optimal time after diagnosis for initiation (hours, days/weeks, years), significant contraindications in subgroups of patients, efficacy of the intervention in that disease (curative, effective/ameliorative, still in trials/unproven), and level of published evidence for each intervention (authoritative clinical practice guideline, cohort study(ies), case report(s)). Consensus was reached for each question for each retained intervention. In addition, the experts identified appropriate consulting sub-specialists for each condition and emergency treatment notification flags, if any, that should accompany diagnostic reports. [00218] Informed by experience with the first 15 disease genes, a total of 563 disorder-gene dyads underwent single primary, and secondary reviews by members of the same panel (Figure 9). Primary reviews required 1-5 hours of effort by an expert medical geneticist, and secondary reviews required 1 hour of effort. Interventions lacking consensus were discussed by the five reviewers. Consensus was required for retention (data not shown). For disorders that reviewers or the moderator considered to require further input a final moderated review was performed by one or more pediatric subspecialists familiar with that disorder (Figure 9). Examples of the latter included Timothy syndrome (cardiac electrophysiologist) and developmental epileptic encephalopathies (neonatal epileptologist). Review of 8,889 interventions and >5,000 publications by the expert panel led to retention of 421 (75%) disorders and 1,527 interventions (Figure 10A), of which 118 (7.8%) were surgeries, 109 (7.2%) were diets or dietary supplements, 1,046 (68.8%) were medications, 20 (1.3%) were devices, and 233 (14.8%) were of other types (Figure 10A). 75 (5.0%) retained interventions were considered curative, and 1,363 (90.6%) effective or ameliorative (Figure 10A). Surgeries had the highest proportion of curative interventions (37.6%). The disease genes mapped to many organ systems and pathologic mechanisms (Figure 10B). [00219] The retained interventions and qualifying statements were incorporated into the GTRxSM information resource as a prototypic acute management guidance system for genetic diseases that meets FAIR principles (Figure 9,10, gtrx.radygenomiclab.com). [00220] Physician Perception of the Utility of GTRxSM. The clinical utility, ease of use and ease of comprehension of the GTRxSM information resource and management guidance was evaluated by nine senior neonatologists and pediatric intensivists who were not involved in its design or development. On a 10-point Likert scale, their median perception as to whether they would use GTRxSM was 9, ease of use was 9, and the utility of the information was 6 (data not shown). GTRxSM was perceived to meet clinical needs somewhat well. In response to specific feedback, the GTRxSM website was modified to increase ease of use, clarity, and to elicit ongoing feedback. [00221] Performance of the system for automated provisional diagnosis and electronic acute management support. [00222] In four retrospective cases, the automated pipeline and electronic acute management support system identified the correct diagnosis in 13:13 - 13:27 hours (Table 8). An independent physician evaluated the accuracy of the treatment guidance from the virtual acute management support system. In each case, the interventions were assessed to be correct and complete (Table 8, Table 10). [00223] The performance of the 13.5-hour system for automated provisional diagnosis and the GTRXSM electronic acute management support system were prospectively compared with the fastest standard clinical methods in three infants (Table 8, Figure 11). The first prospective case, AH638, was a 6-week-old male admitted to the neonatal ICU with extreme irritability and inconsolable crying. Brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed widespread, symmetric hypodense lesions. Electroencephalography (EEG) revealed frequent seizures. The proband’s elder sister died nine years earlier, at 11 months of age, after presenting at the same age with the same symptoms and findings. WGS was not available at that time, and she died of progressive developmental epileptic encephalopathy without an etiologic diagnosis. His parents were first cousins. The prototypic methods provided a provisional diagnosis in 13 hours and 32 minutes. The diagnosis was autosomal recessive thiamine metabolism dysfunction syndrome 2, biotin- or thiamine -responsive type (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man™ (MIM™) #607483, omim.org/entry/607483) associated with a pathogenic, homozygous, frameshift variant in the thiamine transporter 2 gene (SLC19A3 c.597dup, p.His200fs, ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/variation/533549/?oq=SLC19A3 [gene]+AND+c.597dupT[vamame]+& m=NM_025243.4(SLC19A3):c.597dup%20(p.His200fs)). The provisional diagnosis was immediately communicated to the neonatologist of record. Effective treatments (biotin and thiamine supplements) were initiated within 3 hours of diagnosis. He responded to treatment and was alert, tranquil, and bottle feeding within six hours of treatment. Standard clinical rWGS® methods recapitulated the diagnosis in 42 hours and 39 minutes. He had no further seizures and was discharged home after 3 days. At fifteen months of age, he has had no further seizures. He is making developmental progress but has delayed motor and language development. [00224] The second patient, CSD59F, a male, was admitted to the neonatal ICU on day of life 6 after his mother noticed abnormal, jerking movements (Table 8, Figure 11). EEG disclosed frequent seizures. He had hypocalcemia (6.1 mg/dL, reference range 7.6-10.4 mg/dL) and hyperphosphatemia (11.2 mg/dL, reference range 4.3-9.3 mg/dL). The prototypic methods yielded a provisional diagnosis of Leigh syndrome (MIM#256000, omim.org/entry/256000) in 15 hours and 5 minutes. Peripheral blood DNA had de novo 96% heteroplasmy (1351/1402 reads) for a well-established, pathogenic variant in the mitochondrial ATP synthase subunit 6 gene MT-ATP6 m.8993T>C, p.Leul56Pro, ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/variation/9642/?oq=MT- ATP6[gene]+AND+m.8993T%3EC[vamame]+&m=NC_012920.1 :m.8993T%3EC). Leigh syndrome is associated with infantile seizures. The provisional diagnosis of Leigh syndrome was immediately communicated to the neonatologist of record. A heterozygous variant of uncertain significance was also identified in the SET domain- containing protein 1A gene (SETD1A c.4105G>A, p.Glyl369Arg, ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/variation/834092/?oq=SETDlA[gene]+AND+c.4105G%3EA[vamame ]+&m=NM_014712.3(SETDlA):c.4105G%3EA%20(p.Glyl369Arg)). Pathogenic variation in SETD1A is associated with autosomal dominant, Early-Onset Epilepsy with or without developmental delay (MIM #618832, omim.org/entry/618832). This finding was not reported provisionally. Standard clinical rWGS® methods recapitulated these findings in 42 hours and 5 minutes, and a final report was issued of both findings. Seizures remitted with phenobarbital. He was seen by a subspecialist in mitochondrial diseases within 48 hours of admission, and initiated on thiamine, ubiquinol and riboflavin supplementation. He was discharged in stable condition with no further seizures on day of life 23. [00225] The third patient, CSD709, a male, was admitted to the neonatal ICU on the first day of life with respiratory failure, lactic acidosis, encephalopathy, hypotonia, multiple congenital anomalies (short long bones in the upper and lower limbs, posteriorly rotated ears, dysmorphic knees, and congenital heart disease (pulmonary artery stenosis, pulmonary arterial hypertension, aortic valve stenosis, and right ventricular hypertrophy))(Table 8). rWGS® was completed in 14 hours and 14 minutes by the prototypic methods but did not yield a provisional diagnosis. Standard clinical rWGS® methods completed in 27 hours and 46 minutes. Both disclosed a heterozygous, likely pathogenic, SNV in a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs-like protein 2 (ADAMTSL2 c.338G>T, p.Argl l3Leu, ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/variation/1326072/?oq=ADAMTSL2[gene]+AND+c.338G%3ET[vama me]+&m=NM_014694.4(ADAMTSL2):c.338G%3ET%20(p.Argl 13Leu)) that had previously been reported in patients with geleophysic dysplasia (MIM# 231050, omim.org/entry/231050?search=231050&highlight=231050) as a compound heterozygous or homozygous change. The variant call file (vcf) did not contain a second variant in ADAMTSL2. However, ADAMTSL2 is located in a region that is affected by segmental duplication. Manual inspection of aligned ADAMTSL2 reads revealed a second heterozygous, likely pathogenic variant (c,1851C>A, p.Cys617Ter, ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/variation/1326007/?oq=ADAMTSL2[gene]+AND+c.l851C%3EA[var name]+&m=NM_014694.4(ADAMTSL2):c.l851C%3EA%20(p.Cys617Ter)). Both variants were confirmed to be in trans by orthogonal methods and a diagnosis of geleophysic dysplasia was reported after 14 days. [00226] DISCUSSION [00227] The cost and turnaround time of WGS have decreased dramatically since its advent 15 years ago (Figure 12). The first human genome took 13 years to complete. Described herein is the performance of a 13.5-hour, autonomous system for genetic disease diagnosis by rapid WGS and virtual, specific management guidance. This is the fifth reduction in the minimal time to diagnosis by WGS since 2012. While this manuscript was under review, a 7-hour, method for genetic disease diagnosis by long-read WGS was published. The rationale for continuing to pursue faster diagnosis was strikingly exemplified in the first infant to receive 13.5-hour WGS. He was diagnosed in 13 hours and 32 minutes with a disorder that is both treatable and extremely rapidly progressive. Had his diagnosis been delayed until the standard rWGS® result (42.5 hours) he would likely have had significant, permanent neurologic damage. In contrast, his sister died without an etiologic diagnosis, and thus, without effective treatment. The experience in this family was not unique. Since it is not possible to determine a priori which cases require such rapidity, the general practice has been to provide the fastest turnaround possible for all critically ill infants and children or those with rapid clinical progression in ICUs and who have diseases of unknown etiology. At current volume of —100 cases per month, our median turnaround time for critical cases is 30 - 36 hours. In clinical production in three cases, it was found that these methods have reduced this by a factor of two. [00228] There is now strong evidence that diagnosis of genetic diseases by rWGS® improves outcomes of infants and children in regional ICUs, irrespective of presentation or health system. As a result, diagnostic rWGS® is being implemented for such children in England, Wales, and Germany, by Anthem/BlueCross/BlueShield in the USA, and by Medicaid in California and Michigan. Scalability of rWGS® in routine practice is, therefore, as important as turnaround time. The 13.5-hour system for genetic disease diagnosis incorporated several innovations that enhance scalability and reproducibility. These included automated interpretation, which is extremely important since there are insufficient molecular pathologists, molecular laboratory directors, genetic counselors and clinical genome analysts for manual interpretation of results from all of the children for whom rWGS® is being implemented. As sequencing costs decrease (Figure 12), manual interpretation and reporting are becoming the largest component of the expense of diagnostic rWGS®. Herein, three, cloud-based methods for autonomous genetic disease diagnosis were compared, providing the opportunity for cross checking of results. The only requirements for implementation of this system are an EHR, internet access, and a regional diagnostic lab with a suitable sequencer. A cloud-based, automated interpretation that is supervised by a laboratory director and supplemented with centralized, manual interpretation for edge cases is envisaged. The diagnostic performance of the automated interpretation system GEM™ was recently examined in 193 children with suspected genetic diseases. In 92% of cases, GEM™ ranked the correct gene and variant in the top two calls, including structural variant diagnoses. However, to date the full 13.5-hour system has been evaluated only in four retrospective and six prospective cases. Further studies are needed for clinical validation, such as reproducibility, performance with all patterns of inheritance, examination of the relative diagnostic performance of automated methods compared with traditional manual interpretation, and to understand the proportion of edge cases. [00229] Another innovation of the system described herein was ability to diagnose genetic diseases associated with most major classes of genomic variants. Hitherto, diagnostic speed was achieved at the expense of limitation to small (nucleotide) variants, which represent 75-80% of genetic disease diagnoses. Here, methods for library preparation, variant calling, and automated interpretation were used that enabled structural and copy number variant (SV, CNV) diagnoses with improved performance. It should be noted, however, that recall (sensitivity) for SVs and CNVs remain a weakness of short read sequencing (range 49% - 88%). The consequences of this for genetic disease diagnosis is not yet known. Further studies are needed to compare the diagnostic performance of these methods versus hybrid methods with short read sequencing and complementary technologies, such as long-read sequencing and optical mapping. [00230] Finally, the 13.5-hour system featured a virtual clinical decision support system, GTRxSM to decrease variability or delayed implementation of specific treatment following diagnosis of rare genetic conditions. Hitherto, use of rWGS® has been almost entirely in ICUs in regional, academic, tertiary, or quaternary centers with specialist neonatologists and access to a full range of subspecialist consultants. Lack of familiarity with management of specific, rare genetic diseases leads to delays in consultation and missed opportunities for treatment that defeat the goal of rapid diagnosis. GTRxSM was developed both to increase the proportion of children who receive optimal, immediate treatment and to facilitate broader use of rWGS®, such as in local birthing hospitals staffed by front-line neonatologists. In California, for example, while 18% of newborns are admitted to level II and III NICUs in community birthing hospitals, only 2% of newborns are transferred to regional, level IV neonatal intensive care units. Transfers are often delayed since there is a strong desire to provide care for the newborn at the same location as his or her mother, and it is often not readily apparent that subspecialist care is required. In many regions of the US, geographic isolation limits transfer. GTRxSM adheres to the technical standards developed by the ACMG for diagnostic genomic sequencing. The most recent guidelines suggest the addition of references to treatments in reports of genes associated with a treatable genetic disorder. [00231] The extent to which rare genetic diseases did not have organized management guidance was surprising. For many, the mechanism of disease remained unclear, and the treatment literature included only case reports or small case series. Most interventions were off label. Furthermore, no general schema existed whereby to classify the relative efficacy of interventions for specific genetic disorders nor the quality of the evidence for efficacy. Methods to extract and transform treatment data from the literature were developed. A categorical framework for nomenclature, efficacy, evidence, indicated population, immediacy of initiation of treatment and warnings were developed. Tiered reviews were used, facilitated by artificial intelligence and REDCap™, and expert consensus to retain efficacious interventions. The resultant prototypic acute management guidance tool and information resource, GTRxSM, was intended for use by front-line neonatologists and intensivists upon receipt of results of rWGS® for children under their care in ICUs. ft did not require genomic or genetic literacy. Version 1 of GTRxSM covers 457 genetic disorders that cause infant or early childhood 1CU admission and that have somewhat effective, time-delimited treatments. GTRxSM is publicly available for research use at present. [00232] Version 1 of GTRxSM does not cover all genetic diseases of known molecular cause, that can be diagnosed by rWGS®, can lead to 1CU admission in infancy, and have effective treatments. In addition, the literature related to disease treatments is continually being augmented. While pediatric geneticists were optimal subspecialists for initial review of disorders and interventions, many would benefit from additional sub- and super-specialist review. In addition, recent evidence supports the use of rWGS® for genetic disease diagnosis and management guidance in older children in pediatric ICUs. There are several, additional, complementary information resources that would enrich GTRxSM, such as ClinGen™, the Genetic Test Registry™, and Rx-Genes™. Finally, there are many clinical trials of new interventions for infant-onset, severe genetic disorders, particularly genetic therapies. For disorders without a current effective treatment, it is desirable to include links to enrollment contacts for those clinical trials. [00233] Currently, pathogenicity guidelines help molecular laboratory directors standardize how many and which genome findings to report. GTRxSM will help standardize the reporting of variants of uncertain significance (VUS), which, at present, is predicated on the goodness of fit of the patient’s presentation and the phenotype associated with the variant containing gene. In the setting of GTRXSM, VUS reporting will be further prioritized by the availability of an effective treatment for the associated disease, akin to variant tiering in oncology93. The GTRxSM information resource will simplify the writing of rWGS® reports, extending the ability to automate diagnosis. Thus, for each automated WGS result, GTRxSM provides access to information about each genetic disease, including inheritance, incidence, symptoms and signs, progression, complications and outcomes, and the causal gene, including function, and mechanism of disease. [00234] As genomic literacy and experience evolves, physicians increasingly wish to reinterpret findings themselves, dynamically adjusting the scope of review on a case-by-case basis. In the longer term, automated genome interpretation and virtual management guidance have the potential to empower dynamic physician re-analysis, ft is envisaged GTRxSM will evolve into a virtual physician assistant, equipping physicians to dynamically explore the goodness of fit of observed and various candidate disease phenotype sets. Where associated diplotypes are incomplete or include variants of uncertain significance, GTRxSM will allow ordering of confirmatory tests. GTRXSM will also assist physicians in decision making with regard to a possible trial of treatment for a potential diagnosis, guided by the risk: benefit ratio. This is particularly important for critically ill patients where a genetic etiology is strongly suspected but genome findings are insufficient for strict molecular diagnosis. GTRxSM will also assist front-line physicians to communicate with families about the ramifications of rare genetic disease diagnoses. GTRxSM is part of a major trend in medicine - adding artificial intelligence to physician competency to deliver “high-performance medicine”. [00235] In summary, described herein is a 13.5-hour prototypic system for automated genetic disease diagnosis and acute management guidance. The system was designed to expand the use of rWGS® by front-line physicians caring for critically ill infants and children in ICUs. At present, the system is prototypic and encompasses only ~500 genetic diseases that progress rapidly, and for which effective treatments are available. Upon validation of clinical utility, expansion of the system to all genetic diseases and to dynamic filtering is envisaged, enabling front-line physicians to play a much more active role in evaluating potential genetic etiologies and their consequent therapies in their patients. [00236] FIGURE LEGENDS [00237] Figure 8. Flow diagrams of the technological components of a 13.5-hour system for automated diagnosis and virtual acute management guidance of genetic diseases by rWGS®. Innovations described herein are indicated by orange boxes A. The order and duration of laboratory steps and technologies. EHR: Electronic Health Record, EDTA: Ethyl eneDiamineTetraAcetic acid, gDNA: genomic DeoxyriboNucleic Acid; PCR: Polymerase Chain Reaction, QA: Quality Assurance, nt: Nucleotide, SNV: Single Nucleotide Variant, indel: insertion-deletion nucleotide variant, SV: Structural Variant, CNV: Copy Number Variant, GTRxSM: Genome-to-Treatment. B. Diagram of the information flow from order placement in the EHR to return of diagnostic results together with specific management guidance for that genetic disease. rWGS® Portal: Custom software system forrWGS® ordering, accessioning, chain-of-custody, and return of results (v.3.2). LIMS: Custom laboratory information management system for rWGS®, short tandem repeat profiling, confirmatory testing (Sanger sequencing and Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification), and inventory management (L7 informatics). IR: Information resource, *: HL7/FHIR or Continuity of Care Documents, f : JSON. J: bcl, □: vcf. [00238] Figure 9. Flowchart of the development of GTRxSM, a virtual system for acute management guidance for rare genetic diseases. Phase 1 - Compilation of a comprehensive gene- genetic disease list for severe, childhood-onset conditions in which an established treatment was available. Phase 2, integration of 13 information resources pertaining to rare genetic diseases. Phase 3, development of the GTRx SM web resource containing the integrated information resources. Phase 4, automated, artificial intelligence (Al)-based searching and manual curation of published evidence of treatments for each condition by three companies. Phase 5, development of a custom REDCap™ system for structured assessment of genes, disorders, and therapeutic interventions. Phase 6a, independent manual review of curated interventions and assertions for the first 15 pilot gene-disease pairs by five experts. Phase 6b, primary and secondary reviews of the remaining gene-disease pairs. Phase 7, round-table discussion of records lacking consensus. Phase 8, upload of retained consensus records to the GTRxSM web resource. [00239] Figure 10. GTRxSM disease, gene, and literature filtering, and final content. A. A modified PRISMA flowchart showing filtering steps and summarizing results of review of 563 unique disease-gene dyads herein84. B. Genetic disease types and disease genes featured in the first 100 GTRXSM genes reviewed herein. [00240] Figure 11. Clinical (a and c, dark blue circles) and diagnostic timelines (b and d, light blue circles) of infants AH638 (a and b) and CSD59F (c and d), who received both standard, clinical rWGS® and the 13.5-hour methods. ED: Emergency Department. EEG: Electroencephalogram. Al: Artificial intelligence. DOL: Day of life. Circles with vertical lines indicate interactions between neonatology, genomics, and biochemical genetics. [00241] Figure 12. Decreasing cost of research WGS (red line) and time to provisional diagnosis of rapid, clinical WGS (blue line) of WGS, 2005 - 2021. Source data are provided as a Source Data file. [00242] SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS (EXAMPLE 2) [00243] TABLES [00244] Table 8. Analytic performance, reproducibility, and duration of the major steps in automated diagnosis of genetic diseases by accelerated rWGS®. Analytic and diagnostic reproducibility were examined for sample 362 from 19.5-hour rWGS® (16), reference samples NA12878 and NA24385, four retrospective samples/diagnoses (AG928/Hereditary fructose intolerance (compound heterozygous, pathogenic (P) SNVs in aldolase B [ALDOB c.448G>C, c.524C>A]); AG366/Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency (hemizygous, de novo, P, SNV in ornithine transcarbamylase [OTC c.275G>A]); AF414/Propionic acidemia (homozygous, likely pathogenic (LP) indel in a-subunit of propionyl-CoA carboxylase [PCCA c.1899+4 1899+7del]); AI003/Developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 11 (heterozygous, de novo, LP SNV in the a2-subunit of the voltage-gated sodium channel [SCN2A c.4437G>C]), and three prospective samples (AH638/Thiamine metabolism dysfunction syndrome 2 (homozygous, P, frame-shift variant in solute carrier 19, member 3 [SLC19A3 c.597dup]), CSD59F (heteroplasmic, P, SNV in the mitochondrial ATP synthase 6 gene [MT-ATP6 m.8993T>C]), and CSD709/ Geleophysic dysplasia (compound heterozygous SNVs in ADAMTS-like 2 [ADAMTSL2 c.338G>T and c,1851C>A]), which received rWGS® both with the 13.5-hour method (Herein) and standard, singleton or trio, clinical rWGS® (Std)(Table 11). Ref.16: Reference 16. Sample 12878: Sample NA12878. ID: Identification. Here: Herein. 1 °/2° analysis time: Conversion of raw data from base call to FASTQ format, read alignment to the reference genomes and variant calling. Tertiary analysis: Time of automated interpretation to provisional diagnosis (most rapid of three systems run in parallel (MOON™, Illumina TruSight™ Software Suite and GEM™). SV and CNV detection methods: MC: Manta and CNVnator. DRAGEN™ version 3.7. D3.5: DRAGEN™ version 3.5.3. MIM™: Mendelian inheritance in man. Nt: Nucleotide. Gene symbols are shown in italics. Variant section headers are shown in bold. [00245] Table 9. Comparison of the analytic performance of standard, clinical rWGS® and the 13.5-hour method. The analytic performance of DRAGEN™ v.3.7 for SNVs and indels was compared with DRAGEN™ v2.5, the prior method (16), in reference samples NA12878 and NA24385, using NIST benchmark genotypes. The analytic performance of DRAGEN™ v.3.7 for SVs and CNVs was compared with Manta and CNVnator™ (MC) in triplicate libraries in reference sample NA24385, using NIST benchmark genotypes. SV and CNV evaluations used Witty.Er (What is true, thank you, earnestly) [75], with default settings except event reporting [— em cts]). SVs were of size >50 nt and CNVs >10 kb. oo w [00246] Table 10. Precision and recall of phenotypic features extracted by clinical natural language processing (CNLP) from EHRs in 10 children with genetic diseases. Precision=tp/tp+fp. Recall=tp/tp+fh. Abbreviations: AD: Autosomal Dominant; AR: Autosomal Recessive; DN: de novo,' P: Pathogenic; LP: Likely Pathogenic; S: Singleton; T: Trio; I: Inherited; U: undetermined; OMIM™: Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man; Inh: Inheritance. [00247] Table 11. Characteristics of four retrospective cases used to test performance of the 13.5 hour automated sequencing and interpretation pipeline. Abbreviations: AD: Autosomal Dominant; DN: de novo,' P: Pathogenic; LP: Likely Pathogenic; M: Male; F: Female; S: Singleton; T: Trio; I: Inherited; XL: X linked; Het: Heterozygous; Hom: Homozygous; Hem: Hemizygous; OMIM: Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man™. [00248] Table 12. Analytic performance of three automated interpretation software systems, MOON™ (InVitae), GEM™ (Fabric Genomics) and TruSight™ (Illumina) in four retrospective cases and one prospective case. *Includes processing time for DRAGEN™ v3.7. Abbreviations: SNV: single nucleotide variant; SV: structural variant; CNV: copy number variant. EXAMPLE 3 A GENOME SEQUENCING SYSTEM FOR UNIVERSAL NEWBORN SCREENING, DIAGNOSIS, AND PRECISION MEDICINE FOR SEVERE GENETIC DISEASES [00249] This example exemplifies a cost-effective, learning newborn screen (NBS) for all single locus genetic diseases with effective treatments that utilizes whole genome sequencing (WGS) and is scalable to millions of births per year. [00250] Newborn screening (NBS) dramatically improves outcomes in severe, childhood disorders by treatment before symptom onset. In many genetic diseases, however, outcomes remain poor since NBS has lagged behind drug development. Rapid whole genome sequencing (rWGS®) is attractive for comprehensive NBS since it concomitantly examines almost all genetic diseases and is gaining acceptance for genetic disease diagnosis in ill newborns. The inventors describe prototypic methods for scalable, parentally consented, feedback-informed NBS and diagnosis of genetic diseases by rWGS® and virtual, acute management guidance (NBS-rWGS®). NBS-rWGS® data resides in a secure, parent-controlled data platform with transparent rights that convey to the child, persist across the lifetime, and can be integrated into the child’s future medical care. Using established criteria and a Delphi technique, the inventors reviewed 457 genetic diseases for NBS-rWGS®, retaining 388 (85%). Simulated NBS-rWGS® in 454,707 UK Biobank subjects with 29,865 pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants associated with 388 disorders had a true negative rate (specificity) of 99.7% following root cause analysis. In 4,376 critically ill children with suspected genetic disorders and their parents, simulated NBS-rWGS® for 388 disorders identified 104 (87%) of 119 diagnoses previously made by rWGS®, and 15 findings not previously reported (NBS-rWGS® negative predictive value 99.6%, true positive rate [sensitivity] 88.8%). Had NBS-rWGS®-based interventions been started on day of life 5, symptoms would have been avoided almost entirely in 7 infants and mostly in 21 critically ill children. [00251] SUBJECTS AND METHODS [00252] Human Subjects. [00253] Deidentified UK Biobank (UKBB) participants and exomes were queried through the UKBB Research Analysis Platform under application number 82213. Retrospective analysis of genomes and phenotypes of critically ill newborns and children and their parents who had received rWGS® for molecular diagnosis of a suspected genetic disorder at Rady Children’s Institute for Genomic Medicine (RCIGM) was approved by the Institutional Review Board of Rady Children’s Hospital/University of California - San Diego. [00254] Selection of Disorders and Interventions for NBS-rWGS®. [00255] Disorder and intervention curation for the Genome-to-Treatment (GTRxSM) management guidance system have been described in detail. Briefly, the inventors examined the efficacy of therapeutic interventions available for 563 childhood-onset, single locus genetic disorders that met the following criteria: acute, childhood presentations that were likely to lead to neonatal, pediatric or cardiovascular ICU admission; having somewhat effective treatments; high likelihood of rapid progression without treatment; and, diagnosable by rWGS®. They were identified by a survey of our Dx-rWGS® experience in -4,000 critically ill newborns and children, and from expanded NBS disorder lists developed by several groups. Publications relating to -10,000 interventions associated with these disorders were extracted with custom scripts (Genomenon Inc. Rancho Biosciences, Epam) and curated manually for relevance20. The interventions were adjudicated by six pediatric clinical and biochemical geneticists using a modified Delphi technique and electronic data capture (RedCap™). Consensus was required for inclusion of interventions and disorders regarding: 1. Age groups in which the intervention was indicated; 2. Optimal time of intervention initiation after NBS or diagnosis; 3. Contraindications; 4. Efficacy category (curative, effective, ameliorative); and 5. Level of evidence supporting efficacy. A web resource integrated the GTRXSM information resources and the adjudicated interventions of 457 retained disorders associated with 352 genes and 1,527 interventions (gtrx, rbsapp.net). [00256] The inventors then evaluated the suitability of the 457 genetic diseases retained in GTRXSM for NBS-rWGS® using established criteria and the same expert panel, electronic data capture system, and modified Delphi methods. The panel included six pediatric clinical and biochemical geneticists representing hospitals in four states. They met weekly for one year. Each week, prior to meeting they reviewed a set of disorders in a RedCap™ electronic data capture system. To reach consensus regarding inclusion of each GTRxSM disorder in NBS-rWGS®, the panel considered six questions and clarifying sub-questions (Figure 13) as follows. [00257] 1. Is the natural history of this genetic disease well-understood? a. Is there at least one well-established gene-phenotype association? b. Is there significant variation in expressivity? c. Is there reduced penetrance? d. Is inheritance (autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, X-linked, mitochondrial) well understood? e. Is pathogenicity of at least a subset of DNA variants well understood (gain vs loss of function)? f. Is genotype - phenotype correlation sufficient for those variants to predict disease course? g. Can variability in outcome or disease severity be clarified by additional investigation (such as an analyte, enzyme, biomarker, or functional test)? [00258] 2. Is this genetic disease a significant risk for morbidity and mortality in infants or young children? a. Is penetrance high enough such that identification of clinically insignificant disease is minimal or causes minimal harm? 3. Is a treatment or intervention available that is effective and accepted? a. Is a treatment available that can affect outcome? b. Is a treatment effective for all affected individuals? c. Is response to treatment consistent for a given recognized pathogenic variant(s)? d. Is treatment effective for all symptoms of a disorder? e. If no specific treatment available, would making a diagnosis change management some other way? f. Is a treatment widely available and are there sufficient providers, facilities, and resources to accommodate all identified individuals? g. Is a treatment acceptable to the majority population? Considerations include cost, morbidity of the treatment, and religious or political beliefs. For example, does this intervention require use of fetal derived tissue? [00259] 4. Does early treatment improve outcome? a. Is there a latent phase during which initiation of treatment leads to improved outcome or prevent complications? b. Does delayed diagnosis lead to poorer outcome or serious complications? c. Does early diagnosis and treatment lead to improved outcome over reactive care following symptom-onset? [00260] 5. Do the benefits of early intervention clearly outweigh the risks? a. Are False Positives problematic with this gene? b. Might NBS adoption of this condition have a negative net benefit? Considerations include the proband, family, and the general population. c. Do concerns exist regarding identification of carriers? [00261] 6. For genes with more than one associated disorder, do their treatments differ, and can they be distinguished by rWGS® or additional testing? [00262] At the meeting, the individual classification for each disorder was presented by each member. Retained conditions were divided into two groups. Group A were conditions for which there were not major gaps in the evidence, high likelihood of benefit, and low risk of harm. Group B were conditions for which there were gaps in the evidence or uncertainty regarding net benefit that required further assessment by NBS-rWGS® research. If there was not initial consensus, discussion regarding differences in opinion ensued. The members then decided whether to change their classification. Decisions required at least two thirds of panelists to agree. The time taken to review a disorder, the extent of initial agreement, and number of rounds of discussion changed as familiarity with the process increased. For most disorders, a majority of members initially agreed about classification. Few disorders had initial unanimity. In addition to the panel members, a software applications specialist audited RedCap™ entries and refined the electronic data capture methods. The first author provided feedback to the panel regarding all other pertinent aspects of the project, such as the analytic performance of disorders in test datasets, as needed to help facilitate decision making. Five of the six panel members were retained for the entire project. The opinions of other pediatric subspecialists at Rady Children’s Hospital, a very large quaternary referral center, were sought if consensus was elusive or if specific domain expertise was required. Four of the panel members had bridging expertise in NBS-MS and Dx-rWGS®. The inventors retained NBS-MS RUSP disorders and included American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) recommended incidental finding disorders with infant onset34. It should be noted that the consensus to retain a disorder did not imply that the evidence was sufficient for inclusion in a clinical NBS-rWGS® product or public health system. Rather, it indicated that the benefit-to-harm ratio for NBS-rWGS® was sufficient for inclusion in NBS-rWGS® research studies. Not all disorders have been evaluated for inclusion in NBS-rWGS®. [00263] Variant Selection. [00264] The inventors evaluated 29,865 rare (GNOMAD™ allele frequency <0.5%), germline, Pathogenic (P) or Likely Pathogenic (LP) ClinVar™ nucleotide variants that mapped to 388 NBS- rWGS® gene-disorder dyads (317 genes and 381 disorders). They included variants with conflicting assertions of pathogenicity and where the associated condition was not specified. Variants of uncertain significance, likely benign and benign variants were excluded. Well established disease-causing variants with GNOMAD allele frequency >0.5% were retained. Following training, 94 “block-listed” variants were removed, leaving a reconciled set of 29,771 variants. Thirteen of these ClinVar™ variants were associated with more than one gene. These were manually associated with a single gene (Table 13). Ten variants were located in variant call file (VCF) regions overlapping both the hemoglobin al HBA1, MIM:141800) and 2 (HBA2, MIM: 141850) loci. These were manually corrected to the ClinVar™ gene association (HBA2). Additional P or LP variants not found in ClinVar™ were identified using Mastermind followed by curation of evidence and variant interpretation according to standard ACMG clinical guidelines (Genomenon). [00265] Rapid diagnostic whole genome sequencing. [00266] Clinical Dx-rWGS® methods from EDTA blood samples and DBS have been described in detail (Figure 14). Briefly, genomic DNA (gDNA) was isolated from blood with the EZ1 DSP DNA™ Blood Kit (Qiagen). gDNA was isolated from five 3mm2 DBS punches (Nucleic card, ThermoFisher or Protein Saver 903 Card, GE Healthcare) with either the DNA Flex™ Lysis Reagent Kit (Illumina) or Proteinase K (QIAGEN). gDNA quality was assessed with the Quant- iT Picogreen dsDNA assay, Nanodrop A260/A280 assay, and by electrophoresis on 0.8% agarose gels (ThermoFisher). Sequencing libraries were prepared with either DNA PCR-free™ Prep kits (Illumina) or KAPA HyperPlus™ PCR-free library kits (Roche). Libraries with concentration >3nM and acceptable fragment size were sequenced (2x101 nucleotide, nt) on NovaSeq™ 6000 instruments (Illumina). Quality controls for rWGS® included Q30 >80%, error rate <3%, and >120Gb per sample. rWGS® were aligned to human genome assembly GRCh37 (hgl9) and variants identified and genotyped with the DRAGEN platform (Illumina). Structural variants were filtered to retain those affecting coding regions of genes associated with genetic diseases and with allele frequencies <2% in the RCIGM database. rWGS® variant quality controls included: 1) identity tracking by CODIS short tandem repeats (STR) by capillary electrophoresis (ThermoFisher) and in silico STR from rWGS®; 2) <15% duplicates, 3) >98% aligned reads; 4) Ti/Tv ratio 2.0-2.2); 5) Hom/Het variant ratio 0.50-0.61); 6) >90% of OMIM genes with >10-fold coverage of all coding nucleotides; 7) sex match; 8) Coverage uniformity by GC bias, standard deviation of coverage normalized to average coverage, and the total length of the reference genome with read coverage. [00267] Comprehensive variant interpretation was performed according to standard guidelines by clinical molecular geneticists with GEM™ and Enterprise software (Fabric Genomics) using the variant call file (vcf), list of observed human phenotype ontology terms, and individual metadata (coded identifier, name, EHR number, ordering physician, date of birth, location, relationship to proband). Variants of each type and inheritance mode were ranked according to phenotypic match with the associated genetic disease and locus, pathogenicity classification, and rarity in population databases. Reported variants were confirmed by Sanger sequencing, multiplex-ligation-dependent probe amplification, or chromosomal microarray, as appropriate. Secondary findings were not systematically sought, but medically actionable incidental findings were reported if families requested this information. Using the consensus recommendations of the ACMG a diagnosis was considered made if pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were identified in a genomic locus that providers agreed led to the disease causing the critical illness. [00268] Re-Pipelining of WGS, TileDB™ Development and Queries. [00269] To serve as a reference and test set for NBS-rWGS®, the inventors created CSI and TBL files for 3,202 One Thousand Genome Project (1KGP) subjects, Genome in a Bottle reference samples, and 4,376 critically ill children and their parents who received rWGS® at RCIGM for diagnosis of suspected genetic disorders, respectively. The inventors re-aligned 3,202 (30X 2xl50nt) 1KGP WGS and 4,376 (>40X 2xl00nt) RCIGM rWGS® to the GRCh38 reference genome using DRAGEN™ (v3.8 and v3.9, respectively) on Illumina Connected Analytics (ICA). The inventors developed array-based data models for genomic variants and metadata extracted from Fabric™ Enterprise, Ensembl™, Gnomad™, Clinvar™, and variant effect prediction (VEP). The resultant 7,578 single sample VCFs were ingested into a TileDB™ array (v2.8) on AWS S3 using TileDB™-VCF (vO.15). TileDB™-VCF is a specialized application that parses VCF files in a sparse, 3 -dimensional array in which records are indexed by their chromosome, chromosomal position, and sample of origin. During ingestion, every VCF is read and converted into the TileDB™-VCF on disk format. While the VCF record is in memory, the genotype for each variant is inspected to determine the frequencies of each allele, which are stored in an additional grouped, variant-centric, TileDB™ array. Fabric Enterprise and interpretation report metadata for the RCIGM rWGS® were merged, de-identified, lifted from GRCH37 to GRCH38 coordinates, and ingested into TileDB™-Cloud (vO.7.41), Ensembl™ (vl04), Gnomad™ (v3.1.1), and Clinvar™ (downloaded 2022-5-20) metadata for each variant were ingested into TileDB™. VEP (vl05) was performed on all variants and results were ingested into TileDB™. The inventors parsed 317 NBS- rWGS® genes and queried the 4,376 RCIGM VCFs with ClinVar™ P and LP variants mapping to these genes based on positions and alleles. Multi-allelic variant rows were flattened. The inventors retained high quality variants and annotated the query results with gene information, project-specific subject codes, gender, and disorder pattern of inheritance. The inventors used custom scripts to calculate variant zygosity and to determine whether genotypes represented NBS- rWGS® positives based on diplotypes and disorder pattern of inheritance. Completeness of query results was assessed by comparison with results of prior Dx-rWGS® interpretation. Queries were performed repeatedly and debugged until reproducibility was assured. Among individuals who had been diagnosed with anNBS-rWGS® disorder, additional NBS-rWGS® positive individuals were sought by analysis of VCFs using the automated interpretation tool, GEM™ in Fabric Enterprise. GEM™ was performed with a Bayes Factor-based cutoff of >0.1 and a generic phenotype (phenotypic abnormality, HP:0000118). [00270] UK Biobank Queries. [00271] The 454,707 UK Biobank subjects were 208,120 (46%) male and 246,587 (54%) female. NBS-rWGS® gene regions were extracted from UKBB pVCFs. The inventors split multiallelic rows, normalized indels, and filtered out low-quality variants as described42. The inventors retrieved ClinVar™ variants with clinical significance (CLNSIG) of “Likely_pathogenic” or “Pathogenic” that mapped to the NBS-rWGS® gene regions. The inventors intersected the two variant sets and identified positive individuals based on pattern of inheritance and individual zygosity (Heterozygous for dominant disorders, and Compound Heterozygous, Hemizygous, or Homozygous for recessive disorders). Where Mendelian Inheritance in Man indicated the pattern of inheritance to be mixed dominant and recessive, the inventors retained only individuals exhibiting recessive patterns of inheritance. The inventors used aggregated International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD)-9/10 codes, Read v2 medication codes, Death Register codes, and self-reported medical condition data to identify subjects affected by specific conditions, including Hemophilia A. [00272] Root Cause Analysis. [00273] Root cause analysis was performed manually on all NBS-rWGS® positive subjects in the UKBB and RCIGM sets to assess the likelihood that they were true or false positives (Figure 15). The inventors first checked gene names, disorder names, and patterns of inheritance to ensure that each variant matched an NBS-rWGS® disorder. The inventors ranked genes by frequency of positive subjects and compared observed frequencies with known incidences of those disorders. Genes with more positive subjects than the population incidence underwent detailed variant analysis. The inventors also ranked variants by frequency of positive subjects and compared observed frequencies with the proportion of affected subjects expected to harbor those variants, where known, and their population incidence. Outlier variants identified by these searches underwent: 1. Literature review to assess the quality and quantity of evidence of pathogenicity, including variant effect predictions, the number of citations reporting affected individuals with the NBS-rWGS® disorder in ClinVar™ or PubMed™, and the quality of evidence for pathogenicity in PubMed, including quantitative functional evidence, number of affected subjects, and phenotypes in affected subjects. For disorders with well-established locus-specific variant databases, these largely replaced review of the primary literature. 2. Review of putative compound heterogyzotes to remove those that were either known to occur in cis as recurrent haplotypes or novel haplotypes that were identified by inspection of aligned and phased sequencing reads. 3. Review for evidence that they mapped to regions of the genome that are difficult to genotype with short read sequences. Variants for which root cause analysis identified an artefactual reason for high positivity were block listed. Recurrent variants with strong support for pathogenicity were white-listed. [00274] Retrospective Clinical Utility Assessment. [00275] The potential clinical utility of NBS-rWGS® was evaluated retrospectively in 4,376 critically ill children with a suspected genetic disorder, and their parents, who had received Dx- rWGS®. In each proband child who had received a molecular diagnosis by rWGS® that had been recapitulated by NBS-rWGS®, the observed clinical features were compared with those listed in MIM™, Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center™, and MEDLINE™ to determine which were attributable to that molecular diagnosis. Based on the assessed efficacy of each indicated intervention for that disorder in GTRxSM, one of us compared the impact on the observed, reversible, attributable clinical features of starting those interventions at the actual age of diagnosis by rWGS® with that of treatment initiation at the counterfactual age of diagnosis by NBS-rWGS® (day of life 5), as previously described9,16. The extent to which NBS-rWGS® could have prevented or avoided the occurrence of each of the attributable clinical features was adjudged on a five-point Likert scale (completely, mostly, partially, none, uncertain). [00276] Web Resources. [00277] Genome to Treatment (GTRxSM) is available at gtrx.rbsapp.net/. The Newborn Screening Condition Resource is available at nbstrn.org/tools/nbs-cr. The US Recommended Uniform Newborn Screening Panel is available at hrsa.gov/advisory-committees/heritable- disorders/rusp/index.html. The UK NBS panel is available at gov.uk/guidance/newborn-blood- spot-screening-programme-overview#conditions-screened-for. [00278] Data and Code Availability. [00279] Consented proband and parent data analyzed in this study, and non-human subjects data generated during this study are available at the Longitudinal Pediatric Data Resource (LPDR) under accession code nbs000003.vl ,p at nbstm.org/. Researchers can obtain access by registration at nbstm.org/login?token-expired=true&rel=/tools/lpdr. There are restrictions to the availability of raw individual data due to data privacy and confidentiality laws. [00280] GTRXSM and the GTRxSM RedCap™ instance is available at gtrx.rbsapp.net/ and at github.com/rao-madhavrao-rcigm/gtrx. The DRAGEN Platform and Illumina Connected Analytics are available from Illumina. GEM™ is available from Fabric Genomics. TileDB™ v2.8.0 is available at github.com/ TileDB™-Inc/TileDB. TileDB™-VCF v0.15.0 is available at github.com/tiledb-inc/tiledb-vcf. [00281] RESULTS [00282] The starting points for development of a system for genomic NBS were the existing staterun NBS by mass spectrometry (NBS-MS) systems and ten years of experience with rapid, diagnostic whole genome sequencing (Dx-rWGS®) in critically ill newborns (Figure 14A). The latter was modified to achieve NBS-rWGS® during the first week of life and with a scope of parentally consented, feedback-informed, screening and diagnosis of hundreds of genetic diseases, together with virtual, acute management guidance (Figure 14B). The DBS that are collected in the first 24 - 48 hours of life and universally used for NBS-MS were validated for clinical-grade rWGS® (Figure 14B). Of over 260 archived California NBS DBS, none failed genomic DNA extraction and WGS quality control (Table 13). [00283] NBS-rWGS® required adaptation of Dx-rWGS® to a much lower pre-test probability of genetic disease. Among critically ill newborns in intensive care units (ICUs) with suspected genetic diseases, the pre-test probability is -40% (Figure 14A). Available data suggested the probability to be 10-15% among all newborns in ICUs, and 1-2% in ostensibly healthy newborns, the populations who would receive NBS-rWGS® (Figure 14B). The analytic performance desired for NBS-rWGS® was based on that of NBS by mass spectrometry (NBS-MS). Twenty years ago, NBS-MS had low positive predictive value (2% PPV). Low PPV is unacceptable to parents, pediatricians, ethicists, and payors. Methodologic improvements have increased the PPV of NBS- MS to -50% in term births (for 48 disorders with a combined true positive rate of 0.03%, Figure 16A). The inventors developed NBS-rWGS® with a similar target PPV to current NBS-MS. Unlike NBS-MS, however, NBS-rWGS® will not have a lower PPV in premature newborns. NBS- rWGS® required variant interpretation without guiding clinical features (Figure 14B). Dx-rWGS® interpretation, in contrast, is predicated on a rank ordered differential diagnosis based on goodness of fit of the newborn’s clinical features to those of all genetic diseases (Figure 14A). For both of these reasons, NBS-rWGS® was developed to query a set of variants that were well-established to be causal in genetic diseases known to cause severe morbidity in young children and with effective treatments (Figure 14B). [00284] Selection of disorders for the primary use (NBS-rWGS®) started by evaluating the 457 childhood-onset genetic diseases with effective treatments that are included in GTRxSM, a virtual management guidance system for pediatricians caring for critically ill, newly diagnosed children in ICUs (Figure 13, Phase i). To develop GTRxSM the inventors evaluated the efficacy, evidence of efficacy, indications, contraindications, and urgency of initiation of -10,000 interventions for 563 genetic diseases that are diagnosed by rWGS® in critically ill children. 457 disease-gene dyads (446 disorders associated with 346 genes) and 1,527 drugs, dietary modifications, devices, surgeries, and other interventions with adequate evidence of efficacy were retained. GTRxSM functions similarly to the ACT sheets developed by the ACMG to guide confirmatory testing and management at time of receipt of a positive result from traditional NBS. Since medical and genome science are evolving rapidly, the inventors wished to develop auditable methods for ongoing, annual selection of disease-gene dyads appropriate for screening in all newborns. While well- established criteria for selection of disorders for NBS exist, they predate the genomic era, and most genetic diseases have not been evaluated in this regard. The suitability of the genetic diseases in GTRXSM for NBS-rWGS® was assessed by a national panel of six pediatric geneticists using the electronic survey database (RedCap™ vl 0.6.3) and modified Delphi technique that were effective for development of GTRxSM (Figure 13, Phase iii-vi). To reach consensus regarding retention of each GTRXSM disorder in NBS-rWGS®, the panel considered six questions and clarifying subquestions (Figure 13, Phase ii): 1. Is the natural history of this disease well-understood? This question was particularly important for ultra-rare and recently discovered diseases. 2. Is this disease a significant risk for morbidity and mortality in infants or young children? 3. Is a treatment or intervention available that is effective and accepted? 4. Does early treatment improve outcome? 5. Do the benefits of early intervention clearly outweigh the risks? This question was particularly important for drugs with serious adverse effects and high-risk interventions. 6. For genes with more than one associated disorder, do their treatments differ, and can they be distinguished by rWGS® or other tests? The opinions of other pediatric subspecialists at Rady Children’s Hospital were sought if consensus was elusive. The inventors retained federally recommended NBS-MS disorders and included ACMG-recommended incidental finding disorders with infant onset. 388 (85%) gene-disorder dyads (317 [92%] genes associated with 381 [85%] disorders) were retained for evaluation in retrospective datasets (data not shown). Retained conditions were divided into two groups. Group A (64%) were conditions for which there were not major gaps in the evidence, high likelihood of benefit, and low risk of harm. Group B (21%) were conditions for which there were gaps in the evidence or uncertainty regarding net benefit that required further assessment by NBS-rWGS® research. The average agreement in disorder classification among panel members was 89.9%. The cumulative incidence of these disorders in the US is approximately 0.8% (data not shown). These methods will allow the number of NBS-rWGS® disorders to grow with time as new, effective interventions are developed and approved. [00285] The initial variants evaluated by in silica NBS-rWGS® were all 29,865 rare (GNOMAD allele frequency <0.5%), germline, Pathogenic (P) or Likely Pathogenic (LP) ClinVar™ nucleotide (nt) variants that mapped to the 388 NBS-rWGS® disease-gene dyads. These included variants where the associated condition was not specified. Variants of uncertain significance were excluded. From this set the inventors wished to remove variants, disorders, and associated genes with unacceptably high false positive rates. The inventors examined these variants in whole exome sequences of 454,707 UK Biobank (UKBB) subjects enrolled at age 40-69 years between 2006 and 2010. This cohort was significantly healthier than the UK population as a whole. NBS started in the UK in 1969 and encompasses 9 conditions (sickle cell disease [M1M:6O39O3], cystic fibrosis [219700], congenital hypothyroidism [genetically heterogeneous], phenylketonuria [M1M:2616OO], medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency [M1M: 201450], maple syrup urine disease [M1M: 248600], isovaleric acidemia [M1M:2435OO], glutaric aciduria type 1 [M1M:23167O, and homocystinuria [genetically heterogeneous]). The inventors expected the prevalence of other severe, childhood onset disorders to be very low in this population. Screening 29,865 variants identified 147,533 genotypes for 5,348 (18%) variants mapping to 281 (89%) genes (data not shown). When converted to diplotypes and restricted to the patterns of inheritance of the 388 dyads, however, only 2,982 (0.66%) subjects remained positive for 523 (1.8%) variants (Figure 15A, 16B). Remarkably, 244 (77%) of 317 NBS-rWGS® genes were associated with no false positive participants. However, prior exploratory studies of NBS by WES for small panels of genes found the analytic performance to be inferior to NBS-MS. Therefore, the inventors examined whether feedback loop learning, implemented as root cause analysis (Figure 14B ( )and @), would reduce false positives. First, the inventors examined variants located within regions of the genome that are known to be difficult to genotype with short-read sequencing (Figure 15A.ii)54. This removed 38 subjects with artefactual homozygous genotypes in cystathionine [3-synthase (CBS [M1M: 613381], associated with homocystinuria [M1M:2362OO]). Second, the inventors removed 153 likely true positive subjects, 111 based on concordant, albeit limited, UK Biobank phenotypes, and 42 subjects with variants associated with mild or late onset disease (Figure 15A.iii, 16B). An informative example was X-linked hemophilia A (HEMA [MlM:306700]), which has an incidence ~1 in 10,000 in the UK. 129 subjects were hemizygous or compound heterozygous for 28 Factor 8 (F8, M1M:3OO841) variants associated with HEMA (data not shown). Twelve subjects were affected (ICD10 code D66), further validating the pathogenicity of 11 F8 variants. Two F8 variants, affecting one subject each, were synonymous and absent from the Centers for Disease Control Hemophilia A Mutation Project Database (data not shown), were removed as likely benign (Figure 15A.vi). Sixty-one positive subjects were hemizygous or compound heterozygous for F8 NM_000132.4:c.396A>C (p.Glul32Asp, ClinVar™ 10171), which has a single HEMA ClinVar™ submission and whose description was limited to one 1995 manuscript. Variant pathogenicity assertions from that era are known to be frequently inflated. This variant was added to the blocked list. All but five remaining subjects had variants associated with mild HEMA (data not shown). Absent trauma or major surgery, such subjects are asymptomatic and may go undiagnosed. Thus, the PPV of genomic NBS for moderate or severe HEMA in UKBB participants was 71% (12 HEMA subjects among 17 positive genotypes). [00286] Third, the inventors removed 538 subjects with ClinVar™ variant diplotypes for an NBS- rWGS® gene and appropriate inheritance, but associated with genetic disorders that were not retained (Figure 15A.iv). An example is ryanodine receptor 1 (RYR1, MIM: 180901), for which only 20 of 69 variants were associated with malignant hyperthermia (MIM: 145600). Next, 466 subjects were excluded upon removal of variants that did not fit the pattern of inheritance of the NBS-rWGS® disorder (Figure 15A.v). Fifth, 672 false positive diplotypes in recessive disorders occurred as two or more adjacent deleterious variants as haplotypes in cis), rather than as compound heterozygous in trans '. 245 of 248 biotinidase deficiency (MIM:253260) positive subjects had a haplotype composed of Clinvar™ variants 373906 (BTD [MIM:609019] NM_001370658.1 c.40_41del, p.Glyl4fs) and 801942 (BTD c.44_45del, p.Cysl5fs). Likewise, all 63 subjects who were positive for pyruvate kinase deficiency (MIM:266200) had a ClinVar™ variant 280113 (PKLR [MIM: 609712] NM_000298.6 c.721G>T, p.Glu241Ter) and 1163645 (PKLR c.826del, p.Val276fs) haplotype. In addition, 28 of 32 glycogen storage disease II (Pompe disease, MIM:232300) positive subjects had either a ClinVar™ variant 188484 (GAA [MIM:606800] NM_000152.5 c.2237G>C, p.Trp746Ser) and 561162 (GAA c.2228A>G, p.Gln743Arg) haplotype or 497032 (GAA c.l 130del, p.Gly377fs) and 497033 (GAA c.l 129G>C, p.Gly377Arg) haplotype. These haplotypes had not previously been recognized. They were confirmed by examining phased reads (Figure 17). The inventors added one of each variant pair to the blocked list (data not shown): The 5’ variants in BTD and PKLR, a frame-shift and termination codon variant, respectively, were retained, and the 3 ’ “silent” variant removed. The better supported GAA variants (188484 and 497032) were retained. This removed 336 positive individuals (Figure 15A.vii). Lastly, the inventors removed 208 subjects associated with variants with poor pathogenicity support (Figure 15A.viii). For example, ClinVar™ variant 12159 (CYP21A2 [MIM:613815] NM_000500.9 C.1360OT, p.Pro454Ser) is associated with very mild steroid 21 -hydroxylase deficiency (MIM:201910) and has modest effects on enzyme activity. In toto, feedback loop learning, implemented as root cause analysis, removed 94 (0.3%) of 29,865 variants, reducing likely false positives by 59% to 1,214 (0.27%, 99.7% specificity; Figure 15A, 16B). It should be noted that prior medical history information in UKBB participants is selfreported, may be incomplete, and lacks ICD codes for most genetic disorders. Therefore, the nominal PPV for the 388 disorders in middle-aged individuals (12.4%) is a lower limit. [00287] Pathogenicity assessments in NBS-rWGS® require knowledge of frequency for each variant genotype (heterozygous, homozygous, hemizygous, or heteroplasmy fraction and frequency). Since the number of disorders featured in NBS-rWGS® will increase with time, it is important for NBS-rWGS® to remain an open system. In practice, both this and the feedback mechanism demonstrated in the UK Biobank data, required NBS-rWGS® to dynamically calculate the frequency of all possible genotypes at all loci. To accomplish this, the underpinning data management system needed to solve the computational n+1 problem: That is, the cost to merge the gVCF of 1 newborn (~5 million genotypes) with a large set (n, ultimately tens of millions) of prior VCFs, and recalculate all genotype frequencies grows super-linearly with number of genomes. Since time-to-result is critical for NBS-rWGS®, the n+1 problem cannot be resolved by sample accrual and periodic performance in large batches, the typical informatic solution. Human genomes, however, are 99.8% sparse - only ~5 million of ~3 billion positions are non-reference. Therefore, the inventors developed a sparse, cloud-based, data management system for NBS- rWGS® that employed multi-dimensional arrays (TileDB™). To benchmark the n+1 cost of NBS- rWGS®, the inventors added one reference gVCF (HG002) to a TileDB™ array containing 3,202 high coverage VCFs (One Thousand Genome Project, 1KGP), and calculated frequencies for all genotype possibilities at all 125 million variant positions. With a c6g.xlarge Amazon Web Services EC2 instance, the n+1 ingestion and variant frequency refresh took ~22 minutes and cost $0.06. Alternatively, by batching the 3,202 gVCFs in thousands, adding HG002 to one batch, and recalculating genotype frequencies in that batch cost $2.18 (a 33-fold increase) using a nonoptimized, hierarchical, file-based system and the same cloud provider. Without batching, the inventors anticipate that the n+1 cost would have been considerably higher. [00288] Newborns with genetic diseases often become critically ill before diagnosis and are admitted to intensive care units, where increasingly they receive Dx-rWGS®. The inventors evaluated the analytic performance of NBS-rWGS® retrospectively in 2,208 critically ill children with any suspected genetic disorder, and 2,168 parents, who had received Dx-rWGS®. The inventors queried their genomes in TileDB™ with the feedback loop-informed subset of ClinVar™ P and LP variants that mapped to the 388 NBS-rWGS® disease-gene dyads (Figure 15B). Dx-rWGS® reported 119 diagnoses, of which 20 where RUSP NBS disorders. 65 (55%) of 119 were positive by NBS-rWGS® (Figure 15B.i, 17C). The 54 NBS-rWGS® false negatives were due to ClinVar™ absence or conflicting pathogenicity assertions. The inventors supplemented the variant lookup by querying these genomes with the GEM™ automated interpretation system with a Bayes Factor-based cutoff of >0.1 and a generic phenotype (phenotypic abnormality, HP:0000118, Figure 15B.ii). GEM™ identified an additional 23 diagnoses reported by Dx-rWGS®. Of the remaining 32 NBS-rWGS® false negatives, 16 were homozygous or hemizygous for glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase G6PD [MIM:305900], NM_000402.4 c.292G>A, p.Val98Met, ClinVar™ 37123), which had been removed because of allele frequency >3%. Adding this variant to the white-list resulted in a total of 104 of 119 (87%) positive by NBS-rWGS® and Dx-rWGS® (Figure 15B.iii, 16C). In addition, NBS-rWGS® identified 15 findings (4 probands, 11 parents) that were not reported by Dx-rWGS® (data not shown). In toto, the negative predictive value and sensitivity of NBS-rWGS® and Dx-rWGS® were the same (99.6% and 88.8%). Seventeen of the diagnoses by NBS-rWGS® were RUSP core conditions. Fifteen of these had been missed by conventional NBS, including five children with ornithine transcarbamoylase deficiency (OTC, MIM:311250) and two with cystic fibrosis (CF, MIM:219700, Table S9). However, NBS-rWGS® did not identify four individuals with RUSP NBS disorders that had been diagnosed by Dx-rWGS® (data not shown). [00289] The national panel of six pediatric geneticists evaluated the counterfactual clinical utility of NBS-rWGS®, compared with the actual utility at time of diagnosis by Dx-rWGS® in 60 of the 104 children with diseases detected by both (Table 13). Assuming return of results on day of life 5, NBS-rWGS® would have shortened the time to diagnosis by a median of 73 days (average 623 days, range 0-7,912 days). The panel examined which of the observed clinical features were attributable to the molecular diagnosis, and the extent to which attributable phenotypes would have been lessened or prevented by implementation of GTRxSM -indicated interventions on day of life 5 (Table 13). In 41 of the 60 newborns, the panel adjudged that NBS-rWGS® with institution of treatment on day of life 5 would have avoided symptoms almost entirely in 7 infants, mostly in 21 infants, and partially in 13 infants (Table 13). [00290] In addition to the primary use - targeted screening of newborns at birth (Figure 14B) - several optional future uses were envisaged for the data generated by NBS-rWGS®. A desirable, optional, secondary use was phenotype-informed diagnostic interpretation of the entire set of ~5 million genomic variants upon physician order when symptoms arise later in life that suggest a genetic disorder (Figure 14C). This required the WGS-derived Variant Call file (gVCF) to reside in a secure, parent-controlled data platform with transparent rights that convey to the child, persist across the lifetime, and that can be integrated into future medical care in a manner consistent with informed consent (Luna DNA). Data security consistent with the General Data Protection Regulation is implemented in overlapping envelopes, such as multi-factor authentication at account creation and login, and data encryption and data fragmentation between secure, isolated trusted environments. For example, each type of each person’s data is uniquely tagged with a character sequence determined by a one-way hash function that is designed to prevent reverseengineering the given value. Data security controls are documented, audited, and tested regularly, and evolve with time. In contrast, data privacy policies are codified through the platform design, with a set of transparent rights guaranteed to individual parents to access, correct, share, un-share, restrict, transport, and delete their newborn’s data. Integration into future medical care occurs through, for example, a pediatrician order for genome re-interpretation being placed in the EHR, and parental approval by cell phone for their child’s genome and EHR phenotype data to be accessed by the interpreting laboratory (Figure 14C). The resultant diagnostic report is returned to the EHR and genomics data platform, with links to management guidance (Genome-to-Treatment, GTRXSM). Another optional secondary use would be genome re-screening at the individual’s request in early adulthood for pathogenic and likely pathogenic variants associated with later onset disorders that can be prevented or ameliorated by early treatment that are part of the ACMG secondary findings list. [00291] DISCUSSION [00292] Herein the inventors demonstrate the feasibility of NBS-rWGS® for several hundred genetic disorders. While the concept of genomic NBS was part of the promise of the genome project, genomic knowledge and tools hitherto lacked sufficient maturity for practical performance. In addition to an exponential decrease in WGS cost and improved time to result, three recent developments were instrumental in engendering NBS-rWGS®. Firstly, broad diagnostic use of WES and WGS in affected children has allowed establishment of large databases of variant pathogenicity assessments, which provided qualified variants for genomic NBS. Secondly, very large sets of genomes and linked phenotypes are now queryable, enabling in silico training to retain loci and variants with suitable analytic performance for NBS. Thirdly, a virtual, acute management guidance system for genetic disorders that cause critical illness in children both enabled examination of established NBS criteria in hundreds of disorders and serves as a general mechanism to translate positive results into treatments. Importantly, this NBS-rWGS® system accomplishes both screening and diagnosis, with a capacity for root cause analysis to refine and increase the screened variants, loci, and treatments with time, results of NBS-rWGS®, and as variant databases and population datasets expand. While the latter was performed manually herein, each root cause can be codified and performed automatically in the future. In an era of rapid impending growth in cell and gene therapies and orphan drugs, NBS-rWGS® will enable conditions with newly approved, highly effective interventions to be screened without delay. The inventors anticipate that ~1 ,000 genetic disorders may meet criteria for NBS by 2030. Unlike panel tests with fixed content, NBS-rWGS® conditions can be added or removed dynamically based on individual, regional, or societal preferences. [00293] Feasibility pilots over the last decade found that many of the initial ethical, legal, and social implications (ELSI) of genomic NBS were not observed in practice. Many ELSIs are solved by adherence to the original criteria for NBS disorder selection and requiring informed parental consent. Practical concerns, however, will be how to obtain truly informed post-partum consent within the 24 hours of uncomplicated delivery hospitalizations and how to maintain the current 98% participation in NBS despite a requirement for consent. A major unresolved ELSI is weighing the allowable breadth of use of genomic information. For example, the individual benefit of retaining uninterpreted genome information for future diagnostic analysis at onset of a suspected genetic illness upon physician request and individual consent should be weighed against the potential risks to privacy and confidentiality. Similarly, the individual risks versus societal benefits of enriching an anonymized database of NBS-rWGS® variant pathogenicity with race, ethnicity, and ancestral group imputations should be considered. This is important since under-representation of many groups in existing variant frequency-by-zygosity sets makes pathogenicity assessment challenging. Broad participation and optional secondary uses are facilitated through use of a parent-controlled data platform with transparent rights that convey to the child at age of consent. [00294] The analytic performance of this prototype was sufficiently good to proceed to prospective studies. In 454,707 UK Biobank participants, NBS for 388 genetic diseases with a combined incidence of ~0.8% had a 0.27% upper estimate of false positives, making a target PPV of 50% attainable. For HEMA, PPV was 71%. As additional UK Biobank and All of Us datasets are made available it will be possible to calculate PPV for additional disorders. RYR1, the locus with the second highest number of positive subjects (0.03%), is a risk factor for malignant hyperthermia, rather than highly penetrant. The Delphi panel retained it since the benefits were clear - avoidance of depolarizing muscle relaxants and having dantrolene on hand during general anesthesia - and one infant was affected. For 90% of disorders selected for NBS, the upper estimate of false positives was less than 1 in 100,000. This agreed with two prior estimates of the frequency of severe pediatric disease alleles in large genomic datasets. It should be noted, however, that these are not representative of global genomic diversity, and evaluations were limited to nucleotide variants. For NBS disorders, such as type 1 spinal muscular atrophy (MIM:253300), Duchenne muscular dystrophy (MIM:310200), HEMA, and alpha thalassemia (MIM:604131), the most prevalent causes are deletions. A low false positive rate was achieved by retention of only rare, known pathogenic and likely pathogenic variants, and root cause analysis. In 119 affected children who had been diagnosed by rWGS®, 87% were positive by NBS-rWGS®. Sensitivity can be further increased by inclusion of variants identified by artificial intelligence-assisted literature curation or interpretation, imputation of truncating variants in known loss of function loci (Table S10)15. However, increasing the number of variants screened will increase the false positive rate, reinforcing the need for ongoing root cause analysis. [00295] Case-based factual-counterfactual analyses have been useful in demonstrating the net clinical utility and cost effectiveness of diagnostic rWGS® in newborns compared with standard genetic testing. Here the inventors used such methods to examine the potential of NBS-rWGS® to improve outcomes when compared with first tier use of Dx-rWGS®. Had NBS-indicated treatments been started on day of life 5, it was likely NBS-rWGS® could have almost completely avoided morbidity and improved outcomes in 7 of 2,208 probands. For example, infant 24 (Factor XIIIA (F13A1, MIM: 134570) deficiency [MIM: 613225]) was admitted at five weeks of age with hemiparesis following an intracranial hemorrhage. Initiation of Factor XIII replacement in the first week of life would have avoided this catastrophic event. Most neonates in ICUs, however, do not receive first tier Dx-rWGS®. They experience considerably longer diagnostic odysseys. Such neonates would have greater morbidity and mortality associated with further delayed treatment and would derive additional benefit from NBS-rWGS®. Large prospective studies are now needed to evaluate the clinical utility and cost effectiveness of NBS-rWGS®, particularly for disorders in which treatment would not be instituted until symptom onset and loci with considerable phenotypic heterogeneity. Examples are subjects 71-83 and 124-133 with variants mKCNQ2 [MIM:602235], SCN1A [MIM: 182389], and SCN2A [MIM: 182390], loci that are associated both with epileptic encephalopathies (Developmental and epileptic encephalopathy 7, DEE7 [MIM:613720], DEE6B [MIM:619317] and DEE11 [MIM:613721], respectively) and benign seizures (Benign neonatal seizures 1 [MIM: 121200], familial febrile seizures 3A [MIM:604403], and benign familial infantile seizures 3 [MIM:607745], respectively). While positive results would increase scrutiny for seizures, enable prompt, targeted, anti-seizure medicine therapy, and reduce iatrogenesis, prospective studies are needed to evaluate the positive predictive value of NBS for channelopathies. It is important to note that the panel of disorders presented herein is a first version intended to be suitable for evaluation in prospective clinical studies. As evidenced by the Group B disorders, many rare genetic diseases currently lack sufficient published data regarding natural history or treatment efficacy to judge their viability for newborn screening. The inventors invite individuals and organizations both to nominate disorders for consideration for inclusion and to communicate concerns regarding the 388 current NBS-rWGS® disorders. [00296] Cost effectiveness studies of NBS-rWGS® have not yet been performed. While NBS- rWGS® is intended to supplement NBS-MS, not replace it, the current cost of NBS-MS for the 35 core disorders on the RUSP provides a reference point for what is likely to be acceptable for government-funded NBS-rWGS®. Most states published the fees they charge for NBS-MS, which represent part of their total cost. The highest such fee is $220 per newborn. Diagnostic rWGS® costs RCIGM -$8500 per newborn. However, the interpretation burden of NBS-rWGS® is about one thousandth that of Dx-rWGS® and several biotechnology companies have indicated that $100 rWGS® will be possible in the relatively near future. The prerequisites for inexpensive NBS- rWGS® are performance at massive scale and near complete automation. [00297] Since NBS-rWGS® and NBS-MS use orthogonal methods, they have considerable potential complementarity. The Newborn Sequencing in Genomic Medicine and Public Health (NSIGHT) program found that NBS-MS was more sensitive for RUSP conditions than NBS by whole exome sequencing (WES): WES had 88% sensitivity for RUSP disorders in 691 positive samples by NBS-MS. Separately, some publications reported 93% sensitivity of WES in 81 children with core NBS metabolic disorders. Some publications reported 75% sensitivity of a gene panel in 36 children with the same conditions. Some publications reported 89% concordance of WGS and NBS in 1 ,696 newborns. However, the NSIGHT projects also found that WES identified 3 NBS-related disorders in 159 infants and 4 “actionable” findings in 106 infants that were missed by NBS-MS. Herein, NBS-rWGS® identified 23 findings that were not reported by Dx-rWGS®. Complementarity of NBS-rWGS® and NBS-MS was evident in 15 children herein. In two newborns with positive NBS T cell receptor excision circle assays, second tier Dx-rWGS® rapidly identified the specific immunodeficiency locus, knowledge of which is needed for precision therapy. Five children were diagnosed with OTC deficiency by rWGS®, which was examined but not detected by NBS-MS. NBS-rWGS® for RUSP disorders will be particularly useful in premature and low birthweight newborns, in whom NBS-MS suffers frequent false positives and negatives23,45. [00298] In summary, NBS-rWGS® is feasible for hundreds of severe, early childhood-onset genetic disorders that progress rapidly if untreated and have effective therapies. Given the rapid evolution of genome science and gene therapy NBS-rWGS® requires an open system to remain current3. Acceptable analytic performance and turnaround time can be achieved by combining screening, diagnosis, large genome-phenotype datasets, and learning feedback loops. [00299] FIGURE LEGENDS [00300] Figure 13: Flowchart of the modified Delphi technique for ongoing selection of disorders for NBS-rWGS® after they have been included in the Genome-to-Treatment virtual management guidance system (GTRxSM). [00301] Figure 14: Comparison of the workflow for Dx-rWGS® (A) with that for NBS-rWGS® (B) and for a secondary use of data generated by NBS-rWGS® (C). The interpretation burden of NBS-rWGS® is approximately 1,000-fold less than that of Dx-rWGS®. The light blue shading indicates the activities occurring in places of care for newborns or older children, while the darker blue sharing indicates activities occurring in clinical laboratories. The dashed green arrows ( )and @ in NBS-rWGS® indicate feedback loops. Abbreviations: dB, database; EDTA, ethylene diamine tetra-acetic acid; ICU, intensive care unit; EHR, electronic health record; CLIA, clinical laboratory improvements act; GEM™ Al, a genome interpretation tool that employs artificial intelligence; GTRxSM, Genome-to-Treatment virtual management guidance system. [00302] Figure 15: Funnel plots showing reduction in 2,982 positive individuals in 73 positive NBS-rWGS® genes among 454,707 UK Biobank participants by root cause analysis (A) and increase in retrospective NBS-rWGS® positives among 4,376 children and their parents (B). Abbreviations: LB, likely benign; B, benign; AR, autosomal recessive; AD, autosomal dominant; ICD, International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems; dB, database; UKBB, United Kingdom Biobank. [00303] Figure 16: Impact of training on the sensitivity and specificity of NBS-MS and NBS- rWGS®. A. Postanalytical tools reduced false positives from NBS-MS of 48 disorders from 454 to 41, improving specificity (true negative rate) from 99.7% to 99.98%. Of note, false positives excluded newborns with birth weight <1.8 kg and DBS obtained at <24 hours or >7 days. B. Root cause analysis reduced NBS-false positives from NBS-rWGS® of 388 disorders from 2,982 to 1,214, improving specificity from 99.3% to 99.7%. C. Addition of positive individuals by GEM™ and inclusion of ClinVar™ 3712323 increased NBS-rWGS® true positives from 65 to 104, improving sensitivity from 59.6% to 87%. Of note, these results included NBS-rWGS® of newborns with birth weight <1.8 kg and DBS obtained at >7 days. [00304] Figure 17: Visualization of paired sequence reads on a 120 nt region of Chr 1 demonstrating that ClinVar™ variants 280113 (PKLR g,155,294,726G>T, p.Glu241Ter), shown in green, and 1163645 (PKLR g,155294621del, p.Val276fs), shown as a black hash, occurred in the same read in a positive UKBB subject (red boxes). [00305] SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS (EXAMPLE 3) [00306] TABLES [00307] Table 13: Counterfactual analysis of the potential clinical utility of earlier diagnosis by NBS-rWGS® compared with actual age at diagnosis by rWGS® in 43 children. Reversible phenotypes attributable to the molecular diagnosis were identified from MIM™, Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center™, and MEDLINE™ searches. Newborn treatments and their efficacy are from GTRxSM. fNBS RUSP disorders. Abbreviations: ID, subject ID; FTT, failure to thrive; QTC, corrected QT interval; HB, hemoglobin; Susc., susceptibility; Syn., syndrome. [00308] Although the invention has been described with reference to the above examples, it will be understood that modifications and variations are encompassed within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the invention is limited only by the following claims.

### Claims

Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: a) determining a comprehensive set of genetic diseases; b) identifying genetic diseases of the comprehensive set that are severe and have childhood onset; c) determining efficacy and quality of evidence of efficacy of a comprehensive set of available therapeutic interventions for the genetic disease identified in (b); d) determining a comprehensive set of genes associated with genetic diseases that have at least one available therapeutic intervention; e) determining a comprehensive set of pathogenic or likely pathogenic genetic variants of the comprehensive set of genes determined in (d); f) determining population frequency of the genetic variants; g) for recessive genetic diseases of the genetic variants, determining which recessive genetic diseases occur in cis in populations; h) analyzing results of (e), (f) and (g) to generate a revised list of pathogenic or likely pathogenic genetic variants; i) performing genetic sequencing of a genomic DNA sample from a subject; j) determining genetic variant diplotypes of the genomic DNA; k) comparing the genetic variant diplotypes with the results of (h) to determine whether the subject screens positive for a genetic disease for which an effective treatment currently exists or can be developed; and l) generating a report comprising results of any of (a)-(k). 2. The method of claim 1 , further comprising: m) recalculating population allele frequencies or diplotype allele frequencies of (f) to include results of (j). 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: n) performing confirmatory testing of results of (k) to determine whether they are true or false positive results. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: o) providing an available therapeutic intervention from the comprehensive set of available therapeutic interventions of (c) if the results of (n) are true positive results. 5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: p) updating variant pathogenicity assertions of (e) to include results of (n). 6. The method of claim 3, further comprising determining a fetal phenotype or newborn phenotype. 7. The method of claim 4, further comprising: q) measuring longitudinal outcomes following available therapeutic interventions. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: r) updating the available therapeutic interventions of (c) to include results of (q). 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising utilizing an underpinning sparse database to perform any method step of any preceding claim. 10. The method of claim 4, wherein the available therapeutic intervention is selected from the group consisting of gene therapy, protein replacement therapy, antisense oligonucleotide therapy and gene editing therapy. 11. The method of claim 4, wherein the available therapeutic intervention is an in vivo or ex vivo genetic therapy. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the genetic variants are selected from the group consisting of a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), deletion/insertion polymorphism (INDEL), structural variant (SV), copy number variant (CNV), loss of heterozygosity (LOH), microsatellite instability (MSI), variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR), simple sequence repeat (SSR), mobile insertion element, methylation variant, and chromosomal variant (such as aneuploidy or translocation). 13. The method of claim 1, wherein genetic sequencing comprises, genome sequencing, rapid whole genome sequencing (rapid WGS), ultra-rapid whole genome sequencing, exome sequencing, rapid whole exome sequencing (rWES) or gene panel sequencing. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the DNA sample is from a biological sample. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the biological sample is blood, dried blood spot, saliva, buccal smear/swab, or cord blood. 16. The method of claim 1 or claim 3, wherein genetic sequencing is performed for both biological parents and only results in which trio diplotypes fit a known inheritance pattern of a specific genetic disease are obtained. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein genetic sequencing is performed for both biological parents, and wherein parental health status (healthy or affected) is used to obtain only results in which parental diplotypes fit a known inheritance pattern of a specific genetic disease. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein genetic variants present in the subject’s genome and not in the parental genome are utilized to determine a diagnosis for the subject. 19. The method of claim 1 , wherein the subject is an infant, fetus or newborn. 20. The method of claim 1 , wherein the method is automated. 21. The method of claim 4, wherein generating a therapy regime for the subject and/or providing the available therapeutic intervention to the subject utilizes automated virtual management guidance. 116 22. The method of claim 4 or claim 21, wherein the available therapeutic intervention is selected from the group consisting of surgery, diet, drug, genetic/gene therapies, device, adjuvant chemotherapy, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormone therapy, cytotoxic therapy, immunotherapy, adoptive T cell therapy, targeted therapy, and any combinations thereof. 23. A system comprising: a controller including at least one processor and non-transitory memory, wherein the controller is configured to perform any one of, or combination of (a)-(q) of any preceding claim. 117
