## Patent Reference

- Title: Alignment and variant sequencing analysis pipeline
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN107849612B/en

### Abstract

Abstract Systems and methods for analyzing gene sequence data from a Next Generation Sequence (NGS) platform are provided. Methods of preparing samples for nucleic acid sequence analysis by NGS are also provided. Variant calling was performed using a modified GATK variant calling machine. Mapping reads to genomic reference sequences was performed with a Burrows Wheeler Aligner (BWA) and did not include soft-clipping. The genomic reference sequence is the grch37.1 human genome reference sequence. Sequencing methods include emulsion PCR (empCR), rolling circle amplification or solid phase amplification. In some embodiments, the solid phase amplification is clonal bridge amplification.

### Description

Description Translated from Chinese 比对和变体测序分析管线Alignment and variant sequencing analysis pipeline 对相关申请的交叉引用CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 本申请要求2015年3月26日提交的美国临时申请No.62/138620和2015年11月11日提交的美国临时申请No.62/253908的优先权和权益，其内容各自通过提述完整并入本文。This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/138,620, filed on March 26, 2015, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/253,908, filed on November 11, 2015, the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. 背景background 在美国，每年诊断出超过200000例乳腺癌新病例。其中约2％至5％与BRCA1或BRCA2基因中的功能丧失变体相关。在一般人群中估计的携带者频率BRCA1为1:300，BRCA2为1:800，例外是阿什肯纳兹犹太人(Ashkenazi-Jewish)女性，在她们中BRCA1和BRCA2中的3种始祖突变(founder mutation)的携带者频率为2％至5％。带有BRCA1或BRCA2基因中的有害突变的患者发生乳腺癌的终生风险有50％至80％，发生卵巢癌的终生风险有20％至40％。三阴性乳腺癌——不表达雌激素受体、孕激素受体或Her2/neu，特点是侵袭性更强——占所有乳腺癌的15％至20％；三阴性乳腺癌与BRCA突变相关，频率在4％至42％之间，取决于研究人群的特征(例如，阿什肯纳兹犹太人女性的比例)。In the United States, more than 200,000 new cases of breast cancer are diagnosed each year. Approximately 2% to 5% of these are associated with loss-of-function variants in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes. The estimated carrier frequency in the general population is 1:300 for BRCA1 and 1:800 for BRCA2, with the exception of Ashkenazi-Jewish women, in whom the carrier frequency of the three founder mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 is 2% to 5%. Patients with deleterious mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes have a lifetime risk of 50% to 80% for breast cancer and a lifetime risk of 20% to 40% for ovarian cancer. Triple-negative breast cancers—which do not express estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors, or Her2/neu and are characterized by a more aggressive form—account for 15% to 20% of all breast cancers; triple-negative breast cancers are associated with BRCA mutations at a frequency of between 4% and 42%, depending on the characteristics of the population studied (e.g., the proportion of Ashkenazi Jewish women). 美国国家综合癌症网络(NCCN)制定了帮助医疗保健提供者鉴定具有乳腺癌和卵巢癌高风险、并可能受益于癌症遗传风险评估的患者和家族成员的指南。遗传风险评估可能包括基因检测，但它是一个动态的咨询过程。确定乳腺癌女性是否为BRCA1/2阳性可有助于提供适当的关于增加监视以及关于对侧乳房切除术和/或输卵管卵巢切除术的风险与收益的咨询，而这两种手术都已被证明是对抗乳腺癌的防护措施。鉴定患者中的有害BRCA1/2变体也可能对家庭成员有帮助，家庭成员可能需要获取遗传咨询和测试的渠道来评估他们的癌症风险并确定适当的管理。美国乳腺外科医生学会建议对高风险人群个体进行BRCA1/2检测，包括具有以下情况的人群：早发型乳腺癌患者(50岁以前诊断)；两处原发性乳腺癌，双侧或同侧；早发型乳腺癌家族史；男性乳腺癌；卵巢癌(特别是非粘液型)的个人或家族史；在新诊断的乳腺癌或乳腺癌家族史背景中的阿什肯纳兹(东欧)犹太血统；家族中以前鉴定出BRCA1或BRCA2突变；年龄≤60岁的三阴性乳腺癌；或与遗传性乳腺癌家族史和卵巢相关癌症相关联的胰腺癌。The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) has developed guidelines to help healthcare providers identify patients and family members who are at high risk for breast and ovarian cancer and who may benefit from cancer genetic risk assessment. Genetic risk assessment may include genetic testing, but it is a dynamic counseling process. Determining whether a woman with breast cancer is BRCA1/2 positive can help provide appropriate counseling about increased surveillance and about the risks and benefits of contralateral mastectomy and/or salpingo-oophorectomy, both of which have been shown to be protective against breast cancer. Identification of deleterious BRCA1/2 variants in patients may also be helpful to family members, who may need access to genetic counseling and testing to assess their cancer risk and determine appropriate management. The American Society of Breast Surgeons recommends BRCA1/2 testing for individuals in high-risk groups, including those with the following: early-onset breast cancer (diagnosed before age 50); two primary breast cancers, bilateral or ipsilateral; a family history of early-onset breast cancer; male breast cancer; a personal or family history of ovarian cancer (particularly the non-mucinous type); Ashkenazi (Eastern European) Jewish ancestry in the context of a newly diagnosed breast cancer or a family history of breast cancer; a previously identified BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation in the family; triple-negative breast cancer aged ≤ 60 years; or pancreatic cancer associated with a family history of hereditary breast cancer and ovarian-related cancers. 综合性的BRCA检测通常包括对BRCA1和BRCA2的所有编码外显子及剪接接合区进行测序，和对大基因重排进行分析。当扩增或测序引物序列中存在多态性时，基于PCR的测序方法，包括使用PCR扩增的Sanger测序和下一代测序(NGS)系统，可能由于等位基因脱扣(drop-out)而产生假阴性结果。Comprehensive BRCA testing typically includes sequencing of all coding exons and splice junctions of BRCA1 and BRCA2, as well as analysis for large gene rearrangements. PCR-based sequencing methods, including Sanger sequencing and next-generation sequencing (NGS) systems using PCR amplification, can produce false-negative results due to allele drop-out when polymorphisms are present in the amplification or sequencing primer sequences. 因此，对于改进样品测序的方法以及准确高效地分析NGS测序数据的方法存在着需要。Therefore, there is a need for improved methods for sample sequencing and methods for accurately and efficiently analyzing NGS sequencing data. 概述Overview 在本文某些实施方案中提供了处理由高通量测序方法(包括下一代测序平台)产生的测序数据的方法。示例性测序平台包括但不限于Illumina MiSeq系统和LifeTechnologies Ion Torrent个人化操作基因组测序仪。In certain embodiments herein, methods for processing sequencing data generated by high-throughput sequencing methods (including next-generation sequencing platforms) are provided. Exemplary sequencing platforms include, but are not limited to, the Illumina MiSeq system and the Life Technologies Ion Torrent personalized genome sequencer. 在本文某些实施方案中提供了确定受试者中一个或多个基因中的变体的存在的方法，所述方法包括：(a)使用核酸测序仪提供从来自受试者的核酸样品的核酸测序反应产生的原始测序数据；(b)从所述原始测序数据中去除未通过质量过滤器的低质量读段；(c)从经过滤的原始测序数据中修剪衔接子和/或分子鉴别(MID)序列；(d)将经过滤的原始测序数据映射到基因组参考序列以生成经映射的读段；(e)对经映射的读段进行分类和索引；(f)将读段组添加到数据文件以生成经处理的序列文件；(g)创建重新比对(realigner)目标；(h)对经处理的序列文件进行局部重新比对以生成重新比对的序列文件；(i)从重新比对的序列文件中去除重复读段；(j)分析感兴趣的编码区；和(k)基于步骤(j)中的分析，生成鉴定变体是否存在的报告，其中使用限于含有该一个或多个感兴趣基因的核酸区域的改良的基因组比对工具(utility)进行步骤(g)和(j)。在一些实施方案中，该方法包括使用核酸测序仪对来自受试者的核酸样品进行核酸测序反应以产生步骤(a)的原始测序数据。在一些实施方案中，分析感兴趣的编码区包括判读(call)感兴趣的区域中的每个位置上的变体。在一些实施方案中，感兴趣的区域被额外的150个碱基填补(pad)。在一些实施方案中，使用改良的GATK变体判读器来进行变体判读。在一些实施方案中，将读段映射到基因组参考序列是用Burrows Wheeler Aligner(BWA)进行的。在一些实施方案中，将读段映射到基因组参考序列不包括软剪切(soft clipping)。在一些实施方案中，基因组参考序列是GRCh37.1人类基因组参考序列。在一些实施方案中，测序方法包括乳液PCR(emPCR)、滚环扩增或固相扩增。在一些实施方案中，固相扩增是克隆桥(clonal bridge)扩增。In certain embodiments herein, a method for determining the presence of a variant in one or more genes in a subject is provided, the method comprising: (a) using a nucleic acid sequencer to provide raw sequencing data generated from a nucleic acid sequencing reaction of a nucleic acid sample from a subject; (b) removing low-quality reads that do not pass a quality filter from the raw sequencing data; (c) trimming adapters and/or molecular identification (MID) sequences from the filtered raw sequencing data; (d) mapping the filtered raw sequencing data to a genomic reference sequence to generate mapped reads; (e) classifying and indexing the mapped reads; (f) adding the read group to the data file to generate a processed sequence file; (g) creating a realigner target; (h) locally realigning the processed sequence file to generate a realigned sequence file; (i) removing duplicate reads from the realigned sequence file; (j) analyzing the coding region of interest; and (k) generating a report identifying the presence or absence of a variant based on the analysis in step (j), wherein steps (g) and (j) are performed using a modified genome alignment tool (utility) limited to the nucleic acid region containing the one or more genes of interest. In some embodiments, the method includes using a nucleic acid sequencer to perform a nucleic acid sequencing reaction on a nucleic acid sample from a subject to generate the raw sequencing data of step (a). In some embodiments, analyzing the coding region of interest includes calling the variant at each position in the region of interest. In some embodiments, the region of interest is padded with an additional 150 bases. In some embodiments, variant calling is performed using a modified GATK variant caller. In some embodiments, mapping the reads to the genomic reference sequence is performed using Burrows Wheeler Aligner (BWA). In some embodiments, mapping the reads to the genome reference sequence does not include soft clipping. In some embodiments, the genome reference sequence is the GRCh37.1 human genome reference sequence. In some embodiments, the sequencing method includes emulsion PCR (emPCR), rolling circle amplification or solid phase amplification. In some embodiments, solid phase amplification is clonal bridge amplification. 在一些实施方案中，用于序列分析的核酸从来自受试者的生物样品中提取。在一些实施方案中，生物样品是流体或组织样品。在一些实施方案中，生物样品是血液样品。在一些实施方案中，核酸是基因组DNA。在一些实施方案中，核酸是从mRNA反转录的cDNA。In some embodiments, the nucleic acid for sequence analysis is extracted from a biological sample from a subject. In some embodiments, the biological sample is a fluid or tissue sample. In some embodiments, the biological sample is a blood sample. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid is genomic DNA. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid is cDNA reverse transcribed from mRNA. 在一些实施方案中，其中核酸样品在测序前通过进行以下一种或多种方法制备：(a)剪切(shear)核酸；(b)浓缩核酸样品；(c)对经剪切的核酸样品中的核酸分子进行大小选择；(d)使用DNA聚合酶修复样品中核酸分子的末端；(e)附接一个或多个衔接子序列；(f)扩增核酸以增加具有附接的衔接子序列的核酸的比例；(g)富集核酸样品中的一个或多个感兴趣的基因；和/或(h)在即将测序之前定量核酸样品引物。在一些实施方案中，所述一个或多个衔接子序列包含用于引发测序反应和/或核酸扩增反应的核酸序列。在一些实施方案中，一个或多个衔接子序列包含分子鉴别(MID)标签。在一些实施方案中，富集核酸样品中的一个或多个感兴趣的基因包括使用一个或多个生物素化RNA诱饵的外显子捕获。在一些实施方案中，生物素化的RNA诱饵对于外显子区域、剪接接合位点或内含子区域或一个或多个感兴趣的基因是特异性的。在一些实施方案中，所述一个或多个生物素化RNA诱饵对于BRCA1基因和/或BRCA2基因是特异性的。In some embodiments, the nucleic acid sample is prepared by performing one or more of the following methods before sequencing: (a) shearing nucleic acid; (b) concentrating nucleic acid sample; (c) size selection of nucleic acid molecules in the sheared nucleic acid sample; (d) using DNA polymerase to repair the ends of nucleic acid molecules in the sample; (e) attaching one or more adapter sequences; (f) amplifying nucleic acid to increase the proportion of nucleic acid with attached adapter sequences; (g) enriching one or more genes of interest in the nucleic acid sample; and/or (h) quantifying nucleic acid sample primers immediately before sequencing. In some embodiments, the one or more adapter sequences include nucleic acid sequences for initiating sequencing reactions and/or nucleic acid amplification reactions. In some embodiments, one or more adapter sequences include molecular identification (MID) tags. In some embodiments, enriching one or more genes of interest in the nucleic acid sample includes exon capture using one or more biotinylated RNA baits. In some embodiments, the biotinylated RNA bait is specific for exon regions, splice junction sites or intron regions or one or more genes of interest. In some embodiments, the one or more biotinylated RNA baits are specific for the BRCA1 gene and/or the BRCA2 gene. 在一些实施方案中，用于序列分析的核酸从哺乳动物受试者获得。在一些实施方案中，受试者是人类患者。在一些实施方案中，受试者是疑似患有癌症或疑似具有发生癌症的风险的人。在一些实施方案中，癌症是乳腺癌或卵巢癌。In some embodiments, the nucleic acid for sequence analysis is obtained from a mammalian subject. In some embodiments, the subject is a human patient. In some embodiments, the subject is a person suspected of having cancer or suspected of having a risk of developing cancer. In some embodiments, the cancer is breast cancer or ovarian cancer. 在一些实施方案中，通过本文中提供的方法确定与癌症相关的基因中的一个或多个变体。在一些实施方案中，确定了BRCA1基因或BRCA2基因中的一个或多个变体。在一些实施方案中，一个或多个变体选自表1中列出的变体。In some embodiments, one or more variants in a gene associated with cancer are determined by the methods provided herein. In some embodiments, one or more variants in a BRCA1 gene or a BRCA2 gene are determined. In some embodiments, one or more variants are selected from the variants listed in Table 1. 在一些实施方案中，所提供的方法进一步包括通过测序确认所述一个或多个变体的存在。In some embodiments, provided methods further comprise confirming the presence of the one or more variants by sequencing. 本文还在某些实施方案中提供了包括一个或多个电子处理器的系统，所述电子处理器配置为：(a)从原始测序数据中去除未通过质量过滤器的低质量读段；(b)从过滤的原始测序数据中修剪衔接子和/或分子鉴别(MID)序列；(c)将经过滤的原始测序数据映射到基因组参考序列以生成经映射的读段；(d)对映射的读段进行分类和索引；(e)将读段组添加到数据文件以生成经处理的序列文件；(f)创建重新比对目标；(g)对经处理的序列文件进行局部重新比对以生成重新比对的序列文件；(h)从重新比对的序列文件中去除重复读段；和(i)分析感兴趣的编码区。在一些实施方案中，分析感兴趣的编码区包括判读在感兴趣区域中的每个位置上的变体。在一些实施方案中，感兴趣的区域被另外150个碱基填补。在一些实施方案中，使用改良的GATK变体判读器来进行变体判读。在一些实施方案中，将读段映射到基因组参考序列是用Burrows Wheeler Aligner(BWA)进行的。在一些实施方案中，将读段映射到基因组参考序列不包括软剪切。在一些实施方案中，基因组参考序列是GRCh37.1人类基因组参考序列。Also provided herein in certain embodiments are systems comprising one or more electronic processors configured to: (a) remove low-quality reads that do not pass the quality filter from the raw sequencing data; (b) trim adapters and/or molecular identification (MID) sequences from the filtered raw sequencing data; (c) map the filtered raw sequencing data to a genomic reference sequence to generate mapped reads; (d) classify and index the mapped reads; (e) add read groups to a data file to generate a processed sequence file; (f) create a realignment target; (g) perform local realignment of the processed sequence file to generate a realigned sequence file; (h) remove duplicate reads from the realigned sequence file; and (i) analyze the coding region of interest. In some embodiments, analyzing the coding region of interest includes calling variants at each position in the region of interest. In some embodiments, the region of interest is filled with an additional 150 bases. In some embodiments, variant calling is performed using an improved GATK variant caller. In some embodiments, mapping the reads to the genome reference sequence is performed using Burrows Wheeler Aligner (BWA). In some embodiments, mapping the reads to the genome reference sequence does not include soft shearing. In some embodiments, the genome reference sequence is the GRCh37.1 human genome reference sequence. 本文还在某些实施方案中提供了具有存储在其上的指令的非瞬态计算机可读介质，所述指令包括：(a)去除未通过质量过滤器的低质量读段的指令；(b)从经过滤的原始测序数据中修剪衔接子和MID序列的指令；(c)将经过滤的原始测序数据映射到基因组参考序列以生成经映射的读段的指令；(d)对经映射的读段进行分类和索引的指令；(e)将读段组添加到数据文件以生成经处理的序列文件的指令；(f)创建重新比对目标的指令；(g)进行经处理的序列文件的局部重新比对以生成重新比对的序列文件的指令；(h)从重新比对的序列文件中去除重复读段的指令；和(i)分析感兴趣的编码区的指令。在一些实施方案中，分析感兴趣的编码区包括判读感兴趣区域中的每个位置上的变体。在一些实施方案中，感兴趣的区域被另外150个碱基填补。在一些实施方案中，使用改良的GATK变体判读器来进行变体判读。在一些实施方案中，将读段映射到基因组参考序列是用Burrows WheelerAligner(BWA)进行的。在一些实施方案中，将读段映射到基因组参考序列不包括软剪切。在一些实施方案中，基因组参考序列是GRCh37.1人类基因组参考序列。Also provided herein in certain embodiments are non-transitory computer-readable media having instructions stored thereon, the instructions comprising: (a) instructions for removing low-quality reads that do not pass the quality filter; (b) instructions for trimming adapters and MID sequences from the filtered raw sequencing data; (c) instructions for mapping the filtered raw sequencing data to a genomic reference sequence to generate mapped reads; (d) instructions for classifying and indexing the mapped reads; (e) instructions for adding read groups to a data file to generate a processed sequence file; (f) instructions for creating a realignment target; (g) instructions for performing a local realignment of the processed sequence file to generate a realigned sequence file; (h) instructions for removing duplicate reads from the realigned sequence file; and (i) instructions for analyzing the coding region of interest. In some embodiments, analyzing the coding region of interest includes calling variants at each position in the region of interest. In some embodiments, the region of interest is filled with an additional 150 bases. In some embodiments, variant calling is performed using an improved GATK variant caller. In some embodiments, mapping the reads to the genome reference sequence is performed using Burrows WheelerAligner (BWA). In some embodiments, mapping the reads to the genome reference sequence does not include soft shearing. In some embodiments, the genome reference sequence is the GRCh37.1 human genome reference sequence. 前述概述仅仅是说明性的，并且并不意图以任何方式进行限制。除了以上描述的说明性方面、实施方式以及特征之外，通过参考附图以和详细说明，其他方面、实施方式及特征是不言自明的。The foregoing summary is merely illustrative and is not intended to be limiting in any way. In addition to the illustrative aspects, embodiments, and features described above, further aspects, embodiments, and features are self-evident by reference to the drawings and the detailed description. 附图简述BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 从以下的说明和随附的权利要求书可以更加明了前文所述的本公开的特征，以及本公开的其他特征。这些附图仅描绘了根据本公开的几个实施方式，因此不应被认为对本公开的范围具有限制性，在此理解的基础上，下面通过附图来更具体、更详细地说明本公开。The features of the present disclosure described above, as well as other features of the present disclosure, will become more apparent from the following description and the appended claims. These drawings only depict several embodiments of the present disclosure and are therefore not to be considered as limiting the scope of the present disclosure. Based on this understanding, the present disclosure will be described in more detail and in greater detail below with reference to the drawings. 图1展示的是：按照使用MiSeq和Personal Gene Machine，PGM平台的各种说明性实现方式，用于检测BRCA1和BRCA2变体的NGS测定法的示例性总体概览。对于MiSeq平台，首先使用供应商提供的MiSeq Reporter软件，然后使用Quest序列分析管线[QuestSequencing Analysis Pipeline(QSAP)]进行变体判读。对于PGM平台，使用供应商提供的Torrent Suite变体判读软件。Figure 1 shows an exemplary overall overview of NGS assays for detecting BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants according to various illustrative implementations of the PGM platform using MiSeq and Personal Gene Machine. For the MiSeq platform, the vendor-provided MiSeq Reporter software was first used, followed by variant calling using the Quest Sequencing Analysis Pipeline (QSAP). For the PGM platform, the vendor-provided Torrent Suite variant calling software was used. 图2是按照各种说明性实施方式的QSAP生物信息学序列分析方法的流程图。2 is a flow chart of the QSAP bioinformatics sequence analysis method according to various illustrative embodiments. 图3显示了验证样品(validation sample)中BRCA1的40-bp缺失(缺失c.1175_1214del40)的示例性比对。综合基因组学查看器(Integrative Genomics Viewer，IGV)图形报告显示，使用PGM平台结合Torrent Suite变体判读检测到突变(小图A)，而使用MiSeq平台结合MiSeq Reporter检测不到突变(小图B)。使用QSAP结合MiSeq平台能够检测到该缺失(小图C)。Figure 3 shows an exemplary alignment of a 40-bp deletion (deletion c.1175_1214del40) in BRCA1 in a validation sample. The Integrative Genomics Viewer (IGV) graphical report shows that the mutation was detected using the PGM platform in combination with Torrent Suite variant interpretation (panel A), while the mutation was not detected using the MiSeq platform in combination with MiSeq Reporter (panel B). The deletion was detected using QSAP in combination with the MiSeq platform (panel C). 图4显示了验证样品中64bp缺失(41246533-41246596del；c.952_1015del)的示例性比对。综合基因组学查看器(IGV)图形报告显示使用MiSeq平台结合QSAP检测到该缺失(小图A)，而使用PGM平台结合Torrent Suite变体判读未检测到该缺失(小图B)。Figure 4 shows an exemplary alignment of a 64 bp deletion (41246533-41246596del; c.952_1015del) in the validation sample. The Integrated Genomics Viewer (IGV) graphical report shows that the deletion was detected using the MiSeq platform in conjunction with QSAP (panel A), while the deletion was not detected using the PGM platform in conjunction with Torrent Suite variant interpretation (panel B). 图5显示了示例性地使用下一代测序(NGS)确定顺式-反式取向。这份综合基因组学查看器(IGV)图形报告来自一名在单一DNA分子上具有2个相邻变体的患者，用NGS在MiSeq/QSAP平台上可视化。顺式方向清晰可见，因为每条链或是都含有两个突变，或是两个突变都不含。Figure 5 shows an exemplary use of next generation sequencing (NGS) to determine cis-trans orientation. This Integrative Genomics Viewer (IGV) graphical report is from a patient with 2 adjacent variants on a single DNA molecule, visualized using NGS on the MiSeq/QSAP platform. The cis orientation is clearly visible, as each strand either contains both mutations or neither mutation. 图6是可以结合本文提供的方法使用的计算系统的图解。6 is an illustration of a computing system that may be used in conjunction with the methods provided herein. 下面的详细说明从始至终参考附图来进行。在图中，相似的符号通常标识相似的部件，除非上下文另外规定。详细说明、附图、以及权利要求书中所描述的说明性实施方式并不意图构成限制。可以利用其他实施方式，并且可以做出其他改变，而不脱离此处呈现的主题的精神或范围。容易理解的是，本公开的多个方面，如本文中一般性描述并且在附图中展示的，可以以各种各样的不同配置进行排列、取代、组合和设计，所有这些情况都被明确设想到并构成本公开的一部分。The following detailed description is made throughout with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings, similar symbols generally identify similar parts unless the context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description, drawings, and claims are not intended to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized, and other changes may be made, without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It is readily understood that various aspects of the present disclosure, as generally described herein and illustrated in the accompanying drawings, may be arranged, substituted, combined, and designed in a wide variety of different configurations, all of which are expressly contemplated and constitute a part of the present disclosure. 发明详述DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION 某些术语Certain terms 本说明书中采用的某些术语具有下面所定义的含义。未予定义的术语具有其领域公认的含义。也就是说，除非另外定义，本文中所用的所有技术术语和科学术语具有与本发明所属领域的普通技术人员的通常理解相同的含义。Certain terms used in this specification have the meanings defined below. Undefined terms have their art-recognized meanings. That is, unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as those commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention belongs. 如本文中使用的，除非另有说明，当提及数值时，术语“约”表示所列举的值加上10％或减去10％。As used herein, unless otherwise indicated, when referring to a numerical value, the term 'about' means plus 10% or minus 10% of the recited value. 如本文中使用的，术语“分离的”、“纯化的”或“基本上纯化的”是指诸如核酸之类的分子，所述分子从它们的自然环境中移除、分离或分开，并且至少60％游离于，优选75％游离于，最优选90％游离于与它们天然结合的其他组分。因此，分离的分子是基本上纯化的分子。As used herein, the terms 'isolated,' 'purified,' or 'substantially purified' refer to molecules, such as nucleic acids, that are removed, separated, or isolated from their natural environment and are at least 60% free, preferably 75% free, and most preferably 90% free from other components with which they are naturally associated. Thus, an isolated molecule is a substantially purified molecule. 在基因片段或染色体片段的上下文中，“片段”是指具有至少约10个核苷酸、至少约20个核苷酸、至少约25个核苷酸、至少约30个核苷酸、至少约40个核苷酸、至少约50个核苷酸、至少约100个核苷酸、至少约250个核苷酸、至少约500个核苷酸、至少约1,000个核苷酸、至少约2,000个核苷酸的核苷酸残基序列。In the context of a gene fragment or a chromosome fragment, 'fragment' refers to a sequence of nucleotide residues having at least about 10 nucleotides, at least about 20 nucleotides, at least about 25 nucleotides, at least about 30 nucleotides, at least about 40 nucleotides, at least about 50 nucleotides, at least about 100 nucleotides, at least about 250 nucleotides, at least about 500 nucleotides, at least about 1,000 nucleotides, at least about 2,000 nucleotides. 术语“同一性”和“相同”是指序列之间的一致性程度。可能存在部分同一性或完全同一性。部分相同的序列是与另一个序列小于100％相同的序列。部分相同的序列可以具有至少70％或至少75％、至少80％或至少85％、或至少90％或至少95％的总体同一性。The terms 'identity' and 'identical' refer to the degree of correspondence between sequences. There may be partial identity or complete identity. A partially identical sequence is a sequence that is less than 100% identical to another sequence. Partially identical sequences may have an overall identity of at least 70% or at least 75%, at least 80% or at least 85%, or at least 90% or at least 95%. 如本文中使用的术语“扩增”(“amplification)或“扩增”(“amplify”)包括用于拷贝靶核酸从而增加选择的核酸序列的拷贝数的方法。扩增可以是指数或线性的。靶核酸可以是DNA或RNA。以这种方式扩增的序列形成“扩增产物”，也称为“扩增子”。虽然下文描述的示例性方法涉及使用聚合酶链式反应(PCR)的扩增，但是用于扩增核酸的许多其他方法(例如等温法、滚环法等)是本领域中已知的。本领域技术人员将理解，这些其他方法可以代替PCR方法或与PCR方法一起使用。参见，例如，Saiki,“Amplification of Genomic DNA”inPCR Protocols,Innis等人编辑，Academic Press,San Diego,CA 1990,pp.13-20；Wharam等人，Nucleic Acids Res.,29(11):E54-E54,2001；Hafner等人，Biotechniques,30(4):852-56,858,860,2001；Zhong等人，Biotechniques,30(4):852-6,858,860,2001。As used herein, the term 'amplification' or 'amplify' includes a method for copying a target nucleic acid to increase the number of copies of a selected nucleic acid sequence. Amplification can be exponential or linear. The target nucleic acid can be DNA or RNA. The sequence amplified in this manner forms an 'amplification product', also known as an 'amplicon'. Although the exemplary method described below involves amplification using polymerase chain reaction (PCR), many other methods for amplifying nucleic acids (e.g., isothermal methods, rolling circle methods, etc.) are known in the art. Those skilled in the art will understand that these other methods can be used instead of or in addition to PCR methods. See, for example, Saiki, 'Amplification of Genomic DNA' in PCR Protocols, Innis et al., ed., Academic Press, San Diego, CA 1990, pp. 13-20; Wharam et al., Nucleic Acids Res., 29(11):E54-E54, 2001; Hafner et al., Biotechniques, 30(4):852-56,858,860, 2001; Zhong et al., Biotechniques, 30(4):852-6,858,860, 2001. 如本文中使用的术语“可检测标记”是指与探针相关联的分子或化合物或一组分子或一组化合物，其用于识别杂交于基因组核酸或参考核酸的探针。As used herein, the term 'detectable label' refers to a molecule or compound or a group of molecules or compounds associated with a probe that is used to identify the probe hybridized to a genomic nucleic acid or a reference nucleic acid. 如本文中使用的，术语“检测”是指观察来自可检测标记的信号以指示靶标的存在。更具体地说，“检测”用于“检测特定序列”的上下文中。As used herein, the term 'detection' refers to observing a signal from a detectable label to indicate the presence of a target. More specifically, 'detection' is used in the context of 'detecting a specific sequence'. 如本文中使用的，术语“高通量、大规模并行测序”是指可以并行产生克隆方式扩增的(clonally amplified)分子的多个测序反应及单个核酸分子的多个测序反应的测序方法。这样可以提高数据的吞吐量和产率。这些方法在本领域中也称为下一代测序(NGS)方法。NGS方法包括例如使用可逆染料终止物的边合成边测序(sequencing-by-synthesis)，以及边连接边测序(sequencing-by-ligation)。常使用的NGS平台的非限制性实例包括miRNA BeadArray(Illumina,Inc.)、Roche 454TM GS FLXTM-Titanium(RocheDiagnostics)、ABI SOLiDTM System(Applied Biosystems,Foster City,CA)、和HeliScopeTMSequencing System(Helicos Biosciences Corp.,Cambridge MA)。As used herein, the term 'high-throughput, large-scale parallel sequencing' refers to a sequencing method that can generate multiple sequencing reactions of cloned (clonally amplified) molecules and multiple sequencing reactions of single nucleic acid molecules in parallel. This can improve the throughput and productivity of data. These methods are also referred to as next-generation sequencing (NGS) methods in the art. NGS methods include, for example, sequencing by synthesis using reversible dye terminators, and sequencing by ligation. Non-limiting examples of commonly used NGS platforms include miRNA BeadArray (Illumina, Inc.), Roche 454TM GS FLXTM-Titanium (Roche Diagnostics), ABI SOLiDTM System (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA), and HeliScopeTM Sequencing System (Helicos Biosciences Corp., Cambridge MA). 如本文中使用的“测序深度”或“读取深度”是指序列已被测序的次数(测序的深度)。作为示例，读取深度可以通过比对多次测序运行结果，并计算具有一定大小(例如，100bp)的非重叠窗口中的开始位置的读段加以确定。可以使用本领域已知的方法，基于读取深度来确定拷贝数变化。例如，使用在Yoon等人，Genome Research 2009September；19(9):1586–1592；Xie等人，BMC Bioinformatics 2009Mar 6；10:80；或Medvedev等人，Nature Methods2009Nov；6(11Suppl):S13-20中描述的方法。这种类型的方法和分析的使用被称为“读段深度途径”。As used herein, 'sequencing depth' or 'read depth' refers to the number of times a sequence has been sequenced (the depth of sequencing). As an example, the read depth can be determined by aligning the results of multiple sequencing runs and calculating the reads of the starting position in a non-overlapping window of a certain size (e.g., 100 bp). Copy number changes can be determined based on read depth using methods known in the art. For example, using methods described in Yoon et al., Genome Research 2009 September; 19 (9): 1586–1592; Xie et al., BMC Bioinformatics 2009 Mar 6; 10: 80; or Medvedev et al., Nature Methods 2009 Nov; 6 (11 Suppl): S13-20. The use of this type of method and analysis is referred to as a 'read depth approach'. 如本文中使用的“核酸片段读段”是指单一的短的连续信息块或序列数据段。读段可以具有任何适合的长度，例如约30个核苷酸至约1000个核苷酸之间的长度。长度通常取决于用于获得它的测序技术。在具体实施方案中，读段也可以更长，例如，2kb到10kb或更长。本方法一般性地涵盖任何读段或读长，并且不应被理解为限于当前能的读长，而是还包括该领域的进一步发展，例如，长读测序方法等的开发。As used herein, 'nucleic acid fragment read' refers to a single short continuous block of information or sequence data segment. The read segment can have any suitable length, such as a length between about 30 nucleotides and about 1000 nucleotides. The length generally depends on the sequencing technology used to obtain it. In a specific embodiment, the read segment can also be longer, for example, 2kb to 10kb or longer. The present method generally covers any read segment or read length, and should not be understood as being limited to the currently available read length, but also includes further developments in the field, for example, the development of long-read sequencing methods, etc. 如本文中使用的“核酸序列数据”可以是本领域技术人员已知的关于核酸分子的任何序列信息。序列数据可以包括必须转化成核酸序列的关于DNA或RNA序列、经修饰的核酸、单链或双链体序列或作为替代的氨基酸序列的信息。序列数据可以另外包括关于测序仪的信息、获取日期、读长、测序方向、测序的实体的来源、相邻序列或读段、重复的存在或本领域技术人员已知的任何其他适合的参数。序列数据可以作为本领域技术人员已知的任何适合的格式、档案、编码或文档呈现。数据可以例如是FASTQ、Qseq、CSFASTA、BED、WIG、EMBL、Phred、GFF、SAM、SRF、SFF或ABI-ABIF的格式。As used herein, 'nucleic acid sequence data' can be any sequence information about nucleic acid molecules known to those skilled in the art. Sequence data can include information about DNA or RNA sequences, modified nucleic acids, single-stranded or duplex sequences, or alternative amino acid sequences that must be converted into nucleic acid sequences. Sequence data can additionally include information about sequencers, acquisition dates, read lengths, sequencing directions, sources of entities sequenced, adjacent sequences or reads, the presence of repetitions, or any other suitable parameters known to those skilled in the art. Sequence data can be presented in any suitable format, archives, encodings, or documents known to those skilled in the art. Data can be, for example, in the format of FASTQ, Qseq, CSFASTA, BED, WIG, EMBL, Phred, GFF, SAM, SRF, SFF, or ABI-ABIF. 如本文中使用的，术语“从多个核酸片段读段获得序列数据”是指通过进行核酸测序反应来确定受试者或一组受试者的序列信息的过程。As used herein, the term 'obtaining sequence data from a plurality of nucleic acid fragment reads' refers to a process of determining sequence information of a subject or a group of subjects by performing a nucleic acid sequencing reaction. 如本文中使用的术语“多重PCR”是指可供在同一反应容器内同时扩增和检测两种或更多种靶核酸的测定法。每个扩增反应使用独特的一对引物来引发。在一些实施方案中，每个引物对中的至少一个引物以可检测部分标记。在一些实施方案中，多重反应可以进一步包括每个靶核酸的特异性探针。在一些实施方案中，特异性探针以不同的可检测部分可检测地标记。As used herein, the term 'multiplex PCR' refers to an assay for simultaneously amplifying and detecting two or more target nucleic acids in the same reaction vessel. Each amplification reaction uses a unique pair of primers to initiate. In some embodiments, at least one primer in each primer pair is labeled with a detectable portion. In some embodiments, the multiplex reaction may further include a specific probe for each target nucleic acid. In some embodiments, the specific probe is detectably labeled with different detectable portions. 术语“巢式聚合酶链式反应”是聚合酶链式反应的一种改型，在本文的语境中，进行该反应来给扩增子添加序列。巢式聚合酶链式反应涉及在连续两轮聚合酶链式反应中使用两组引物，第二组引物旨在从第一轮的产物中扩增靶标。The term 'nested polymerase chain reaction' is a modification of the polymerase chain reaction, which in the present context is performed to add sequence to an amplicon. The nested polymerase chain reaction involves the use of two sets of primers in two consecutive rounds of polymerase chain reaction, the second set of primers being designed to amplify the target from the products of the first round. 如本文中使用的，术语“寡核苷酸”是指由脱氧核糖核苷酸、核糖核苷酸或其任何组合组成的短聚合物。寡核苷酸的长度通常为约10、11、12、13、14、15、20、25或30至约150个核苷酸(nt)，更优选约10、11、12、13、14、15、20、25或30至约70个nt。As used herein, the term 'oligonucleotide' refers to a short polymer consisting of deoxyribonucleotides, ribonucleotides, or any combination thereof. The length of an oligonucleotide is generally about 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 25, or 30 to about 150 nucleotides (nt), more preferably about 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 25, or 30 to about 70 nt. 术语“特异性”，如本文中对寡核苷酸引物使用的，是指当寡核苷酸和核酸比对时，引物的核苷酸序列与待扩增的核酸的一部分具有至少12个碱基的序列同一性。对核酸特异性的寡核苷酸引物是在严格杂交或洗涤条件下能够与感兴趣的靶标杂交并且基本上不与非感兴趣的核酸杂交的寡核苷酸引物。更高的序列同一性水平是优选的，并且包括至少75％、至少80％、至少85％、至少90％、至少95％、更优选至少98％的序列同一性。The term 'specificity', as used herein for oligonucleotide primers, means that when the oligonucleotide and nucleic acid are aligned, the nucleotide sequence of the primer has a sequence identity of at least 12 bases with a portion of the nucleic acid to be amplified. Oligonucleotide primers specific for nucleic acids are oligonucleotide primers that can hybridize with a target of interest and substantially do not hybridize with non-interested nucleic acids under stringent hybridization or washing conditions. Higher levels of sequence identity are preferred and include at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, and more preferably at least 98% sequence identity. 如本文中使用的，术语“受试者”或“个体”是指哺乳动物，比如人，但也可以是另一种动物，比如家畜(例如，狗、猫等)、农场动物(例如，牛、绵羊、猪、马等)或实验动物(例如，猴、大鼠、小鼠、兔、豚鼠等)。As used herein, the term 'subject' or 'individual' refers to a mammal, such as a human, but may also be another animal, such as a domestic animal (e.g., dog, cat, etc.), a farm animal (e.g., cows, sheep, pigs, horses, etc.), or an experimental animal (e.g., monkey, rat, mouse, rabbit, guinea pig, etc.). 如本文中使用的术语“互补序列”、“互补的”或“互补性”是指与碱基配对规则相关的多核苷酸(即核苷酸序列，比如寡核苷酸或基因组核酸)。如本文中使用的，核酸序列的互补序列是指这样的寡核苷酸，当将其与所述核酸序列比对，使得一个序列的5'端与另一个序列的3'端配对时，其处于“反平行缔合”中。例如，序列5′-A-G-T-3′与序列3′-T-C-A-5′互补。在天然核酸中不常见的某些碱基可以被包括在本发明的核酸中，并且包括例如肌苷和7-脱氮鸟嘌呤。互补性不一定是完全的；稳定的双链体可能含有不匹配的碱基对或不匹配的碱基。核酸技术领域的技术人员可以凭经验考虑许多变量来确定双链体稳定性，所述变量包括例如寡核苷酸的长度、寡核苷酸的碱基组成和序列、错配碱基对的离子强度和发生率。互补性可以是“部分的”，其中只有一些核酸碱基根据碱基配对规则匹配。或者，在核酸之间可以存在“完整”、“总的”或“完全”互补。As used herein, the terms 'complementary sequence', 'complementary' or 'complementarity' refer to a polynucleotide (i.e., a nucleotide sequence, such as an oligonucleotide or a genomic nucleic acid) that is associated with the base pairing rules. As used herein, the complementary sequence of a nucleic acid sequence refers to an oligonucleotide that is in 'antiparallel association' when it is aligned with the nucleic acid sequence so that the 5' end of one sequence is paired with the 3' end of the other sequence. For example, the sequence 5'-A-G-T-3' is complementary to the sequence 3'-T-C-A-5'. Certain bases that are not common in natural nucleic acids can be included in the nucleic acids of the present invention, and include, for example, inosine and 7-deazaguanine. Complementarity is not necessarily complete; stable duplexes may contain mismatched base pairs or mismatched bases. A person skilled in the art of nucleic acid technology can empirically consider many variables to determine duplex stability, including, for example, the length of the oligonucleotide, the base composition and sequence of the oligonucleotide, the ionic strength and incidence of mismatched base pairs. Complementarity can be 'partial', in which only some nucleic acid bases match according to the base pairing rules. Alternatively, there can be 'complete,' 'total,' or 'perfect' complementarity between the nucleic acids. “检测”基因或蛋白质中的突变可以通过进行适当的测定法来完成。为了检测生物样品中的基因或蛋白质中的突变，测定生物样品以确定突变基因或突变蛋白质的存在或不存在。测定可以包括从样品中提取核酸(例如，总基因组DNA和/或RNA)，并通过本领域已知的方法分析所提取的核酸。测定可涉及从生物样品中分离蛋白质并分析蛋白质。然而，测定不一定涉及核酸的提取或蛋白质的分离。也就是说，可以采用一些直接分析生物样品而不提取或分离核酸或蛋白质的测定法。'Detecting' a mutation in a gene or protein can be accomplished by performing an appropriate assay. In order to detect a mutation in a gene or protein in a biological sample, the biological sample is assayed to determine the presence or absence of a mutant gene or mutant protein. The assay can include extracting nucleic acids (e.g., total genomic DNA and/or RNA) from the sample and analyzing the extracted nucleic acids by methods known in the art. The assay can involve isolating proteins from the biological sample and analyzing the proteins. However, the assay does not necessarily involve the extraction of nucleic acids or the separation of proteins. That is, some assays that directly analyze biological samples without extracting or isolating nucleic acids or proteins can be used. 如本文中使用的，术语“受试者”是指哺乳动物，比如人，但也可以是另一种动物，比如家畜(例如，狗、猫等)、农场动物(例如，牛、绵羊、猪、马等)或实验动物(例如，猴、大鼠、小鼠、兔、豚鼠等)。术语“患者”是指具有或疑似具有感兴趣的遗传多态性的“受试者”。As used herein, the term 'subject' refers to a mammal, such as a human, but may also be another animal, such as a domestic animal (e.g., dog, cat, etc.), a farm animal (e.g., cattle, sheep, pig, horse, etc.), or an experimental animal (e.g., monkey, rat, mouse, rabbit, guinea pig, etc.). The term 'patient' refers to a 'subject' having or suspected of having a genetic polymorphism of interest. 概述Overview 利用Illumina MiSeq测序系统进行基因组序列分析，使用自带的MiSeq Reporter软件检测BRCA1和BRCA2变体，并不能检出某些关键突变。具体地说，MiSeq测序系统对某些类型的变体，比如中等大小的插入或缺失，灵敏度较低。例如，如本文工作实施例中所述的，MiSeq测序系统未能鉴定两个具有大于9个碱基对(bp)的缺失的病理性BRCA1变体：40-bp缺失c.1175_1214del40和10-bp缺失c.3481_3491del10。开发了用于处理从下一代序列(NGS)平台生成的原始序列数据的序列数据分析管线(QSAP，代表“Quest序列分析管线”)，其用于检测BRCA1和BRCA2变体，并在本文中加以描述。如本文中所述的QSAP工作流程可以结合各种NGS平台用于比对和等位基因指配。在一些实施方案中，QSAP方法能够鉴定MiSeqReporter软件遗漏的变体。Genomic sequence analysis using the Illumina MiSeq sequencing system, using the built-in MiSeq Reporter software to detect BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants, failed to detect certain key mutations. Specifically, the MiSeq sequencing system has low sensitivity to certain types of variants, such as medium-sized insertions or deletions. For example, as described in the working examples herein, the MiSeq sequencing system failed to identify two pathological BRCA1 variants with deletions greater than 9 base pairs (bp): 40-bp deletion c.1175_1214del40 and 10-bp deletion c.3481_3491del10. A sequence data analysis pipeline (QSAP, standing for 'Quest Sequence Analysis Pipeline') for processing raw sequence data generated from a next-generation sequence (NGS) platform was developed for detecting BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants and is described herein. The QSAP workflow as described herein can be combined with various NGS platforms for alignment and allele assignment. In some embodiments, the QSAP method is capable of identifying variants missed by the MiSeqReporter software. 就基因组参考序列而言，经剪切的基因组文库中的不同片段的开始和/或结束位置往往与其他片段的起始和/或末端位置不同。本文中提供的QSAP工作流程涉及通过去除表观PCR克隆来减轻扩增偏倚的可能影响，从而更好地恢复原始剪切基因组样品中的等位基因平衡。因此，生物信息学分析能够区分来自相同文库克隆的读段与来自不同文库克隆的读段。另外，QSAP工作流程涉及限于感兴趣靶区域的局部重新比对，从而提高了插入和缺失检测的灵敏度，并提供了更快更高效的分析。With respect to the genomic reference sequence, the start and/or end positions of different fragments in the sheared genomic library are often different from the start and/or end positions of other fragments. The QSAP workflow provided herein involves alleviating the possible effects of amplification bias by removing apparent PCR clones, thereby better restoring the allele balance in the original sheared genomic sample. Therefore, bioinformatics analysis can distinguish between reads from the same library clones and reads from different library clones. In addition, the QSAP workflow involves local realignment limited to the target region of interest, thereby improving the sensitivity of insertion and deletion detection and providing faster and more efficient analysis. 另外，当在扩增或测序引物序列中存在多态性时，使用诱饵小区(bait tile)文库捕获外显子再进行NGS，可以避免由于等位基因脱扣引起的假阴性检测的潜在原因。诱饵小区是长度为约125bp的生物素化RNA分子，用于捕获有关片段。由于诱饵小区比典型的PCR或测序引物长约100碱基，而且由于RNA/DNA杂交体比DNA/DNA杂交体更强，故多态性干扰外显子捕获的可能性降低。诱饵小区捕获相对于基于PCR的测序方法的第二个优点是可避免由于PCR或文库形成中的克隆偏倚引起的假阳性结果。In addition, when polymorphisms are present in the amplification or sequencing primer sequences, the use of bait tile libraries to capture exons prior to NGS can avoid potential causes of false negative detection due to allele dropout. Bait tiles are biotinylated RNA molecules of approximately 125 bp in length that are used to capture the fragment of interest. Because the bait tile is approximately 100 bases longer than a typical PCR or sequencing primer, and because RNA/DNA hybrids are stronger than DNA/DNA hybrids, the likelihood of polymorphisms interfering with exon capture is reduced. A second advantage of bait tile capture over PCR-based sequencing methods is that false positive results due to clonal bias in PCR or library formation can be avoided. 靶基因和变体Target genes and variants 本文中提供的系统和方法可以应用于任何感兴趣基因中的变体的检测。示例性变体包括单核苷酸多态性、点突变、插入、缺失和易位。在一些示例性实施方案中，本文中提供的系统和方法用于检测大于5、6、7、8、9、10、11、12、13、14、15、16、17、18、19、20、25、30、35、40、45、50个或更多个碱基对的基因组缺失。The system and method provided herein can be applied to the detection of variants in any gene of interest. Exemplary variants include single nucleotide polymorphisms, point mutations, insertions, deletions, and translocations. In some exemplary embodiments, the system and method provided herein is used to detect genome deletions greater than 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or more base pairs. 在一些示例性实施方案中，感兴趣的基因是BRCA1基因或BRCA2基因。被测序和/或分析的BRCA1或BRCA2靶区段可以呈现BRCA1或BRCA2基因组DNA或cDNA的全部或部分。在一些实施方案中，对一个或多个BRCA1或BRACA2外显子或其部分测序。在一些实施方案中，对一个或多个BRCA1或BRACA2内含子或其部分测序。在一些实施方案中，对至少一个、二个、五个、10个或20个，乃至25个或27个外显子测序。在其他实施方案中，还评估BRCA1或BRCA2启动子区的全部或部分。In some exemplary embodiments, the gene of interest is the BRCA1 gene or the BRCA2 gene. The BRCA1 or BRCA2 target segment sequenced and/or analyzed may represent all or part of the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genomic DNA or cDNA. In some embodiments, one or more BRCA1 or BRACA2 exons or portions thereof are sequenced. In some embodiments, one or more BRCA1 or BRACA2 introns or portions thereof are sequenced. In some embodiments, at least one, two, five, 10 or 20, or even 25 or 27 exons are sequenced. In other embodiments, all or part of the BRCA1 or BRCA2 promoter region is also evaluated. 在一些实施方案中，靶区段代表BRCA1或BRACA2基因的全部编码和非编码序列。在一个实施方案中，各个BRCA1或BRACA2靶区段当被合并时，呈现BRCA1或BRACA2编码区和所有内含子，加上第一外显子直接上游(在5'方向)的BRCA1或BRACA2启动子的约100、500、750、900或1000个上至约1200个核苷酸，加上BRCA1或BRACA2基因直接下游(在3'方向)的约50、100、150或200个上至约200、250、300或400个核苷酸。在一些实施方案中，相邻的上游区包括BRCA1或BRACA2启动子序列的全部或部分。在另一个实施方案中，呈现BRCA1或BRACA2的所有外显子、以及一个或多个内含子的一部分。In some embodiments, the target segment represents the entire coding and non-coding sequence of the BRCA1 or BRACA2 gene. In one embodiment, the individual BRCA1 or BRACA2 target segments, when combined, represent the BRCA1 or BRACA2 coding region and all introns, plus about 100, 500, 750, 900, or 1000 up to about 1200 nucleotides of the BRCA1 or BRACA2 promoter immediately upstream (in the 5' direction) of the first exon, plus about 50, 100, 150, or 200 up to about 200, 250, 300, or 400 nucleotides immediately downstream (in the 3' direction) of the BRCA1 or BRACA2 gene. In some embodiments, the adjacent upstream region includes all or part of the BRCA1 or BRACA2 promoter sequence. In another embodiment, all exons of BRCA1 or BRACA2, and a portion of one or more introns are represented. 在一些实施方案中，供检测的变体是BRCA1基因或BRCA2基因中的致病突变。在一些实施方案中，致病突变选自表1中提供的突变。在一些实施方案中，供检测的变体是BRCA1基因中的c.1175_1214del40缺失或c.3481_3491del10缺失。In some embodiments, the variant to be detected is a pathogenic mutation in the BRCA1 gene or the BRCA2 gene. In some embodiments, the pathogenic mutation is selected from the mutations provided in Table 1. In some embodiments, the variant to be detected is the c.1175_1214del40 deletion or the c.3481_3491del10 deletion in the BRCA1 gene. 表1.Coriell细胞系参考样品中的BRCA1和BRCA2变体Table 1. BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants in the Coriell cell line reference sample 所有突变均通过NGS结合PGM系统和MiSeq系统(使用QSAP变体判读)软件、以及Sanger测序法进行检测。All mutations were detected by NGS combined with the PGM System and MiSeq System (using QSAP variant calling) software and Sanger sequencing. 用于分析的样品和样品制备Samples and sample preparation for analysis 本文中提供的方法可以适用于从生物样品获得的任何核酸。如本文中使用的，术语“生物样品”是指含有感兴趣核酸的样品。生物样品可以包括临床样品(即，直接从患者获得)或分离的核酸，并且可以是细胞或无细胞流体和/或组织(例如，活组织检查)样品。在一些实施方案中，从收集自受试者的组织或体液获得样品。样品来源包括但不限于：痰(经处理或未经处理)、支气管肺泡灌洗液(BAL)、支气管冲洗液(BW)、全血或任何类型的分离血细胞(例如，淋巴细胞)、体液、脑脊液(CSF)、尿、血浆、血清或组织(例如，活组织检查材料)。获得测试样品和参考样品的方法是本领域技术人员熟知的，包括但不限于吸出、组织切片、抽取血液或其他流体、外科或针吸活组织检查、采集石蜡包埋组织、采集体液、采集粪便等。在本文中，生物样品优选为血液、血清或血浆。如本文中使用的术语“患者样品”是指从寻求疾病的诊断和/或治疗或确定发生疾病的可能性的人获得的样品。Method provided herein can be applicable to any nucleic acid obtained from a biological sample. As used herein, the term 'biological sample' refers to a sample containing a nucleic acid of interest. A biological sample can include a clinical sample (i.e., directly obtained from a patient) or an isolated nucleic acid, and can be a cell or acellular fluid and/or a tissue (e.g., a biopsy) sample. In some embodiments, a sample is obtained from a tissue or body fluid collected from a subject. Sample sources include, but are not limited to, sputum (processed or unprocessed), bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL), bronchial washings (BW), whole blood or any type of separated blood cells (e.g., lymphocytes), body fluids, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), urine, blood plasma, serum or tissue (e.g., biopsy material). The method for obtaining a test sample and a reference sample is well known to those skilled in the art, including but not limited to aspiration, tissue sectioning, extraction of blood or other fluids, surgery or needle aspiration biopsy, collection of paraffin-embedded tissues, collection of body fluids, collection of feces, etc. In this article, a biological sample is preferably blood, serum or blood plasma. The term 'patient sample' as used herein refers to a sample obtained from a human for whom diagnosis and/or treatment of a disease is sought or the likelihood of developing a disease is determined. 用于制备基因组DNA样品的示例性方法包括但不适于：DNA分离、基因组DNA剪切、测量DNA浓度、DNA末端修复、衔接子连接、扩增、和富集方法，例如，诱饵捕获方法。用于制备DNA样品的示例性工艺流程提供在图1中，并在本文提供的实施例中进一步加以描述。Exemplary methods for preparing genomic DNA samples include but are not suitable for: DNA isolation, genomic DNA shearing, measuring DNA concentration, DNA end repair, adapter ligation, amplification, and enrichment methods, such as bait capture methods. An exemplary process flow for preparing DNA samples is provided in Figure 1 and is further described in the Examples provided herein. 在示例性实施方案中，从患者样品中分离基因组DNA，并将其随机剪切成平均大小约250个碱基对的基因组DNA片段。在一些实施方案中，分离的基因组DNA可以进一步被纯化和浓缩。例如，可以在固体支持物、如固相可逆固定(SPRI)珠上将分离的基因组DNA纯化。In an exemplary embodiment, genomic DNA is isolated from a patient sample and randomly sheared into genomic DNA fragments with an average size of about 250 base pairs. In some embodiments, the isolated genomic DNA can be further purified and concentrated. For example, the isolated genomic DNA can be purified on a solid support, such as solid phase reversible immobilization (SPRI) beads. 在示例性实施方案中，将核酸衔接子添加至基因组DNA片段的5'和3'端。在一些实施方案中，至少一个衔接子包含用于识别个体DNA样品的独特索引序列(也称为索引标签、“条形码”或多重化标识符(MID))。可以将来自一个以上样品来源的经过索引的核酸单独定量，然后在测序之前合并。正因如此，索引序列的使用允许在每次测序运行中汇集多个样品(即，来自一个以上样品来源的样品)，并且随后基于索引序列确定样品来源。In an exemplary embodiment, nucleic acid adapters are added to the 5' and 3' ends of the genomic DNA fragments. In some embodiments, at least one adapter comprises a unique index sequence (also referred to as an index tag, 'barcode' or multiplex identifier (MID)) for identifying an individual DNA sample. The indexed nucleic acids from more than one sample source can be quantified separately and then merged before sequencing. As such, the use of index sequences allows the collection of multiple samples (i.e., samples from more than one sample source) in each sequencing run, and the sample source is then determined based on the index sequence. 另外，衔接子可以包含用于引发扩增和/或测序反应的通用序列。在一些实施方案中，基因组DNA片段在测序前被扩增。在一些实施方案中，衔接子序列是被推荐用于Illumina测序仪(MiSeq和HiSeq)的P5和/或P7衔接子序列。参见，例如，Williams-Carrier等人，Plant J.,63(1):167-77(2010)。在一些实施方案中，衔接子序列是被推荐用于LifeTechnologies测序仪的P1或A衔接子序列。其他衔接子序列是本领域已知的。一些制造商建议使用提供的特定测序技术和装置的专用衔接子序列。In addition, the adapter can include a universal sequence for initiating amplification and/or sequencing reactions. In some embodiments, the genomic DNA fragment is amplified before sequencing. In some embodiments, the adapter sequence is the P5 and/or P7 adapter sequence recommended for Illumina sequencers (MiSeq and HiSeq). See, for example, Williams-Carrier et al., Plant J., 63 (1): 167-77 (2010). In some embodiments, the adapter sequence is the P1 or A adapter sequence recommended for Life Technologies sequencers. Other adapter sequences are known in the art. Some manufacturers recommend the use of dedicated adapter sequences for specific sequencing techniques and devices provided. 衔接子可以通过连接反应来附接，或者使用连接有衔接子的和/或索引的引物来扩增来附接。当采用连接有衔接子的和/或索引的引物扩增靶片段时，衔接子序列和/或索引序列在扩增过程中被纳入扩增子(与靶标特异性引物序列一道)。Adaptors can be attached by ligation, or by amplification using adaptor-attached and/or indexed primers. When a target fragment is amplified using adaptor-attached and/or indexed primers, the adaptor sequence and/or index sequence is incorporated into the amplicon (along with the target-specific primer sequence) during the amplification process. 在示例性实施方案中，对特定的序列靶物加以富集。有许多方法可用于序列选择。在一个实例中，将适合的核酸探针作为诱饵固定在固体支持物上以捕获具有互补序列的多核苷酸片段。例如，通过核酸剪切生成基因组DNA片段库，并用核酸探针(即诱饵)序列特异性捕获，可以富集基因组的选定靶区域。诱饵可以与位于感兴趣的一个或多个区域内的一个或多个外显子、内含子和/或剪接接合位点互补。在一些实施方案中，所述诱饵为RNA诱饵。在一些实施方案中，诱饵被加标签(例如，生物素化)，以便于基因组片段的纯化(例如，用链霉亲和素包被的珠子吸附生物素化的诱饵来进行纯化)。在一些实施方案中，所述诱饵为生物素化RNA诱饵。在一些实施方案中，所述诱饵为与位于BRCA1和/或BRCA2基因内的一个或多个外显子、内含子和/或剪接接合位点互补的生物素化RNA诱饵。In an exemplary embodiment, a specific sequence target is enriched. There are many methods for sequence selection. In one example, a suitable nucleic acid probe is fixed on a solid support as a bait to capture a polynucleotide fragment with a complementary sequence. For example, a genomic DNA fragment library is generated by nucleic acid shearing, and the selected target region of the genome can be enriched with nucleic acid probe (i.e., bait) sequence-specific capture. The bait can be complementary to one or more exons, introns, and/or splice junction sites located in one or more regions of interest. In some embodiments, the bait is an RNA bait. In some embodiments, the bait is labeled (e.g., biotinylated) to facilitate purification of genomic fragments (e.g., purification is performed by adsorbing biotinylated baits with streptavidin-coated beads). In some embodiments, the bait is a biotinylated RNA bait. In some embodiments, the bait is a biotinylated RNA bait complementary to one or more exons, introns, and/or splice junction sites located in BRCA1 and/or BRCA2 genes. 在测序之前，可以通过使用对衔接子序列特异的引物进行扩增来将NGS测序所需的其他序列添加至5'和3'衔接子，NGS测序例如Illumina MiSeqTM(Illumina,San Diego,CA)或Ion TorrentTMPersonal Gene Machine(PGM)(Life Technologies,Grand Island,NY)测序平台。Prior to sequencing, additional sequences required for NGS sequencing, such as the Illumina MiSeq ™ (Illumina, San Diego, CA) or Ion Torrent ™ Personal Gene Machine (PGM) (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY) sequencing platforms, can be added to the 5' and 3' adapters by amplification using primers specific for the adapter sequences. 可以采用来自在感兴趣的基因中具有已知有害变体的细胞系或核酸样品的对照样品，与含有未知序列的核酸的测试样品进行比较。A control sample from a cell line or nucleic acid sample having a known deleterious variant in the gene of interest can be used for comparison with a test sample containing a nucleic acid of unknown sequence. NGS测序平台NGS Sequencing Platform 通常使用高通量DNA测序系统，比如下一代测序(NGS)系统，来生成序列数据，高通量DNA测序系统采用DNA模板的大规模并行测序。用于生成核酸序列数据的示例性NGS测序平台包括但不限于：Illumina的边合成边测序技术(例如，Illumina MiSeq或HiSeq系统)、Life Technologies的Ion Torrent半导体测序技术(例如，Ion Torrent PGM或Ion质子系统)、Roche(454Life Sciences)GS系列和Qiagen(Intelligent Biosystems)Gene Reader测序平台。Sequence data are typically generated using a high-throughput DNA sequencing system, such as a next-generation sequencing (NGS) system, which employs massively parallel sequencing of DNA templates. Exemplary NGS sequencing platforms for generating nucleic acid sequence data include, but are not limited to, Illumina's sequencing-by-synthesis technology (e.g., Illumina MiSeq or HiSeq systems), Life Technologies' Ion Torrent semiconductor sequencing technology (e.g., Ion Torrent PGM or Ion Proton systems), Roche (454 Life Sciences) GS series, and Qiagen (Intelligent Biosystems) Gene Reader sequencing platforms. 通常，使用两种方法来制备用于NGS反应的模板：源自单DNA分子的扩增模板、和单DNA分子模板。对于无法检测单个荧光事件的成像系统，需要扩增DNA模板。三种最常见的扩增方法是乳液PCR(emPCR)、滚环和固相扩增。Typically, two methods are used to prepare templates for NGS reactions: amplified templates derived from single DNA molecules, and single DNA molecule templates. For imaging systems that cannot detect single fluorescent events, amplified DNA templates are required. The three most common amplification methods are emulsion PCR (emPCR), rolling circle, and solid phase amplification. 在克隆桥扩增方法中(该方法在Illumina HiSeq和MiSeq系统中使用)，正向和反向引物以高密度共价附接于流动池中的载玻片。支持物上引物与模板的比例限定了扩增簇的表面密度。将流动池暴露于用于基于聚合酶的延伸的试剂，当连接片段的游离端/远端与表面上的互补寡核苷酸“桥接”时，发生引发作用。重复进行变性和延伸，导致整个流动池表面上数百万个独立位置上的DNA片段发生局部扩增。固相扩增产生大约1200-1500万(MiSeq)个空间分离的模板簇(对于HiSeq，约为1-2亿个)，从而提供了游离端，以供接下来通用测序引物与之杂交以引发测序反应。然后通常使用可逆染料终止物方法进行测序，可逆染料终止物方法是使用可逆的结合有终止物的dNTP的循环方法，包括核苷酸掺入、荧光成像和切割。当每个dNTP加入时，荧光标记的终止物被成像，然后被切割掉，以允许下一个碱基掺入。这些核苷酸被化学封闭，使得每次掺入是唯一的事件。在每个碱基掺入步骤之后进行成像步骤，然后以化学方法去除封闭基团，以便于DNA聚合酶向每条链进行下一次掺入。这一系列步骤持续循环一定的次数，由用户自定义的仪器设置来决定。In the clonal bridge amplification method (used in Illumina HiSeq and MiSeq systems), forward and reverse primers are covalently attached to a glass slide in a flow cell at high density. The ratio of primers to templates on the support defines the surface density of the amplified clusters. The flow cell is exposed to reagents for polymerase-based extension, and priming occurs when the free end/distal end of the ligated fragment is 'bridged' with the complementary oligonucleotide on the surface. Denaturation and extension are repeated, resulting in local amplification of DNA fragments at millions of independent positions on the entire flow cell surface. Solid phase amplification produces approximately 12-15 million (MiSeq) spatially separated template clusters (about 100-200 million for HiSeq), thereby providing free ends for the next universal sequencing primer to hybridize with to initiate the sequencing reaction. Sequencing is then usually performed using a reversible dye terminator method, which is a cyclic method using reversible dNTPs combined with terminators, including nucleotide incorporation, fluorescent imaging, and cleavage. As each dNTP is added, the fluorescently labeled terminator is imaged and then cleaved to allow the next base to be incorporated. These nucleotides are chemically blocked so that each incorporation is a unique event. An imaging step is performed after each base incorporation step, and the blocking group is then chemically removed to allow the DNA polymerase to make the next incorporation into each strand. This series of steps continues for a certain number of cycles, which is determined by the user-defined instrument settings. 在乳液PCR方法中，首先通过基因组DNA的随机片段化生成DNA文库。使用衔接子或接头将单链DNA片段(模板)附接到珠子的表面，一个珠子与来自DNA文库的一个DNA片段附接。珠子的表面包含寡核苷酸探针，所述探针具有与结合DNA片段的衔接子互补的序列。然后将珠子在水-油乳液液滴中区室化。在水性水-油乳液中，每个捕获一个珠子的液滴是一个PCR微反应器，产生单个DNA模板的扩增拷贝。然后使用这些珠子来生成序列。在扩增溶液中使用的珠子覆盖有共价结合的寡核苷酸，所述寡核苷酸对文库的P1序列是反义的。由执行克隆扩增的Ion Torrent One Touch Instrument 2(OT2,Life Technologies,GrandIsland,NY)创建微室。然后将由反义P1寡核苷酸延伸产生的DNA链的3'端与测序引物杂交，该测序引物与反义A寡核苷酸结合。向珠子中添加DNA聚合酶，然后将珠子沉积在计算机芯片状表面的微小孔中。然后使过量的四种dNTP一种一种地依次在芯片的表面上流过。当所需的核苷酸可用时，DNA聚合酶使生长链延伸。每当添加一个核苷酸时，释放一个氢分子，导致含有测序珠子的孔中的pH变化。pH变化的大小大致等于掺入的核苷酸数目，并与四种核苷酸中流过的那种核苷酸一起被检测和测量。In the emulsion PCR method, a DNA library is first generated by random fragmentation of genomic DNA. Single-stranded DNA fragments (templates) are attached to the surface of beads using adapters or joints, and one bead is attached to a DNA fragment from a DNA library. The surface of the beads contains oligonucleotide probes, which have sequences complementary to the adapters that bind the DNA fragments. The beads are then compartmentalized in water-oil emulsion droplets. In an aqueous water-oil emulsion, each droplet that captures a bead is a PCR microreactor, producing an amplified copy of a single DNA template. These beads are then used to generate sequences. The beads used in the amplification solution are covered with covalently bound oligonucleotides that are antisense to the P1 sequence of the library. Microchambers are created by the Ion Torrent One Touch Instrument 2 (OT2, Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY) that performs clonal amplification. The 3' end of the DNA chain generated by the extension of the antisense P1 oligonucleotide is then hybridized with a sequencing primer that is bound to an antisense A oligonucleotide. DNA polymerase is added to the beads, which are then deposited in tiny wells on a computer chip-like surface. Excess amounts of the four dNTPs are then flowed over the surface of the chip one by one in sequence. When the required nucleotide is available, the DNA polymerase extends the growing chain. Each time a nucleotide is added, a hydrogen molecule is released, causing a pH change in the well containing the sequencing bead. The size of the pH change is roughly equal to the number of nucleotides incorporated, and is detected and measured along with which of the four nucleotides flowed through. QSAP处理数据方法QSAP data processing method 图2展示了根据用于序列数据分析(即，QSAP，请求序列分析流程)的各种说明性实施方式的流程图。图2所示的过程可以在计算设备上实现。在一个实施方式中，该过程被编码在包含指令的计算机可读介质上，计算设备执行所述指令时，指令使计算设备实施过程的操作。FIG2 shows a flow chart according to various illustrative embodiments for sequence data analysis (i.e., QSAP, Request Sequence Analysis Process). The process shown in FIG2 can be implemented on a computing device. In one embodiment, the process is encoded on a computer-readable medium containing instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to perform the operations of the process. 原始核酸测序数据来自核酸测序仪(例如来自NGS测序平台)，核酸测序仪从多个核酸片段读段生成多个核酸序列数据。优选地，数据或数据集以一种数据格式存在，更优选以统一的数据格式例如以FASTQ格式存在，并且它们的碱基质量呈Phred/Phrap或修改格式。优选的是，数据格式至少覆盖序列读段及其相关联的碱基质量。在一些实施方案中，多个原始序列数据可以被转换为统一格式。The raw nucleic acid sequencing data comes from a nucleic acid sequencer (e.g., from an NGS sequencing platform), and the nucleic acid sequencer generates multiple nucleic acid sequence data from multiple nucleic acid fragment reads. Preferably, the data or data set exists in a data format, more preferably in a unified data format such as FASTQ format, and their base qualities are in Phred/Phrap or modified format. Preferably, the data format at least covers the sequence reads and their associated base qualities. In some embodiments, multiple raw sequence data can be converted to a unified format. 这些原始核酸测序数据通过本文提供的QSAP方法运行，所述方法包括改进的序列比对和变体判读程序，从而改善对序列变体的检测。QSAP方法使用高性能的计算基础设施，它是开放源码和改良的测序工具的结合。该方法包括：Burrows Wheeler Aligner(BWA)，用于对参考序列(例如hg19/GRCh37.1参考基因组)的比对映射；基因组分析工具包(GATK)的Queue，用于去重；改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对，和强制变体判读(例如，用于变体判读的改良的GATK)。在一个实施方案中，软剪切在比对映射过程中被关闭。例如，BWA工具可以在没有软剪切的情况下运行。被软剪切的序列是在部分映射读段中的不匹配的片段。在一些实施方案中，去除软剪切可消除由于被软剪切的读段的错误映射而导致的错误。局部重新比对可增加突变检测，包括大的插入和缺失的检测的灵敏度。该管线被设计为最大限度地提高变体判读的准确性，减少分析时间，并允许即时访问样本二进制比对/映射格式(BAM)和变体判读格式(VCF)文件。下文提供了QSAP方法的每个步骤的示例性实施方案。本文中使用的“参考序列”可以是覆盖该序列段的任何合适的预先存在的序列，其与新获得的序列数据或核酸片段读段相同或相似。These raw nucleic acid sequencing data are run by the QSAP method provided herein, which includes improved sequence alignment and variant calling procedures, thereby improving the detection of sequence variants. The QSAP method uses a high-performance computing infrastructure, which is a combination of open source and improved sequencing tools. The method includes: Burrows Wheeler Aligner (BWA), for alignment mapping of reference sequences (e.g., hg19/GRCh37.1 reference genomes); Queue of the Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK), for deduplication; improved Smith-Waterman local re-alignment, and forced variant calling (e.g., improved GATK for variant calling). In one embodiment, soft shearing is turned off during the alignment and mapping process. For example, the BWA tool can be run without soft shearing. The soft-cut sequence is an unmatched fragment in a partially mapped read. In some embodiments, removing soft shearing can eliminate errors caused by mis-mapping of soft-cut reads. Local re-alignment can increase mutation detection, including the sensitivity of large insertions and deletions. The pipeline is designed to maximize the accuracy of variant calls, reduce analysis time, and allow instant access to sample binary alignment/mapping format (BAM) and variant call format (VCF) files. Exemplary embodiments of each step of the QSAP method are provided below. A 'reference sequence' as used herein can be any suitable pre-existing sequence covering the sequence segment that is identical or similar to the newly obtained sequence data or nucleic acid fragment read. 在示例性方法中，首先将样品核苷酸序列文件(例如FASTQ文件)从核酸测序仪(例如，MiSeq仪)复制到用户运行数据(rundata)文件夹中。在仪器上利用索引读段对序列去多重化。原始FASTQ文件包含每个样品的至少2个读段，例如正向和反向读段。In an exemplary method, a sample nucleotide sequence file (e.g., a FASTQ file) is first copied from a nucleic acid sequencer (e.g., a MiSeq instrument) into a user rundata folder. The sequence is demultiplexed using index reads on the instrument. The original FASTQ file contains at least 2 reads for each sample, e.g., a forward and reverse read. 然后过滤样品FASTQ文件，以去除标记为未通过供应商质量过滤器的读段。在一些实施方案中，过滤器是碱基质量、覆盖度、周围区域的复杂性或错配过滤器的长度。可以使用序列排序(sequence sorting)工具，例如SAMtools(序列比对/映射工具)来执行过滤程序。The sample FASTQ files are then filtered to remove reads that are marked as not passing the supplier's quality filter. In some embodiments, the filter is the length of the base quality, coverage, complexity of the surrounding area, or mismatch filter. Sequence sorting tools, such as SAMtools (sequence alignment/mapping tools), can be used to perform filtering procedures. 然后从序列读段中修剪掉衔接子和分子标识符(MID)标签序列(即，在核酸样品制备过程期间连接到样品序列的标识符序列)。在一个实现方式中，使用FASTQ处理工具(比如fastq-mcf)来完成此过程，该工具扫描序列文件中的衔接子和标签序列，并且基于对数标度的阈值，确定一组剪切参数并执行剪切。这个步骤将产生一个包含经修剪的样品FASTQ读段的文件。经排序的样品具有独特的衔接子与MID序列组合。因此，根据衔接子及样品特异性MID序列的身份进行修剪，以确保在修剪过程中衔接子和MID序列都被去除。The adapter and molecular identifier (MID) tag sequence (i.e., the identifier sequence connected to the sample sequence during the nucleic acid sample preparation process) are then trimmed from the sequence reads. In one implementation, this process is completed using a FASTQ processing tool (such as fastq-mcf), which scans the adapter and tag sequences in the sequence file, and based on a threshold on a logarithmic scale, determines a set of shearing parameters and performs shearing. This step will produce a file containing the trimmed sample FASTQ reads. The sorted samples have a unique combination of adapters and MID sequences. Therefore, trimming is performed based on the identity of the adapter and sample-specific MID sequence to ensure that both the adapter and MID sequence are removed during the trimming process. 然后使用合适的参考比对算法将经修剪的读段映射到参考序列(例如，GRCh37.1人类基因组参考序列)，进行排序和索引。该过程的这一部分可以使用Burrows-WheelerAligner(BWA)(例如版本0.7.5a-r405)(例如，使用命令：bwa mem-M-t 2)和SAMtools进行。在一些实施方案中，软剪切在比对映射过程中被关闭。也可以采用替代的基本比对工具(例如，bowtie)来进行初始比对。然后可以使用工具(如Picard)将读段组添加到BAM文件，该工具包括用于操作SAM和BAM格式文件的基于Java的命令行工具。这个步骤的输出为一个原始BAM文件，其包含每个样品的映射到基因组的所有读段。虽然SAMtools是对BAM文件进行排序和索引的标准工具，但可以使用其他可处理BAM文件的工具。实施这些比对算法的细节和方法是本领域技术人员已知的，或者可以从适合的文献来源获得，例如，Bao等人，Journalof Human Genetics,28Apr.2011,p.1-9，通过提述将该文献完整并入本文。本发明进一步设想使用这些算法的经优化或进一步开发的版本，或者使用遵循不同方案或算法逻辑的参考比对算法，包括还不可用的算法，只要可满足与本文描述的参考序列比对这一根本目的即可。Then use suitable reference alignment algorithm to map the trimmed reads to reference sequence (for example, GRCh37.1 human genome reference sequence), sort and index.This part of the process can be carried out using Burrows-WheelerAligner (BWA) (for example, version 0.7.5a-r405) (for example, using command: bwa mem-M-t 2) and SAMtools.In some embodiments, soft shearing is closed during the alignment mapping process.Alternative basic alignment tools (for example, bowtie) can also be used to carry out initial alignment.Then the read group can be added to the BAM file using a tool (such as Picard), which includes a Java-based command line tool for operating SAM and BAM format files.The output of this step is an original BAM file, which contains all reads mapped to genome for each sample.Although SAMtools is a standard tool for sorting and indexing BAM files, other tools that can process BAM files can be used. The details and methods of implementing these comparison algorithms are known to those skilled in the art, or can be obtained from suitable literature sources, for example, Bao et al., Journal of Human Genetics, 28Apr.2011, p.1-9, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The present invention further contemplates the use of optimized or further developed versions of these algorithms, or the use of reference comparison algorithms that follow different schemes or algorithmic logic, including algorithms that are not yet available, as long as the fundamental purpose of comparison with the reference sequences described herein can be met. 该过程的下一步涉及管线化重新比对目标创建(pipelined realigner targetcreation)、局部重新比对和重复读段的标记。在一些实施方式中，这些步骤可以使用Queue。在一个示例性实现方式中，Queue管线是基于Queue v.2.3-9分发版本中包括的DataProcessingPipeline.scala脚本的改良的Queue管线。在一些示例性实施方案中，改良包括以下的一者或多者：定制存储器和线程使用参数以适合计算平台；使用经改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对选项；去除碱基质量分数重新校准步骤(BQSR)，和/或Queue分析和BAM输出限于感兴趣的区域(例如，编码外显子+/-约50个碱基)，所述区域任选地填补有额外的碱基，例如约150个碱基。在一些实施方案中，使用Picard的MarkDuplicates应用程序执行明显的重复片段去除(即，去重)，这可以使用Queue来管线化。这些步骤的输出是一个经处理的序列BAM文件，其包含每个样品的所有读段，这些读段与感兴趣的区域重新比对，且去除了重复。The next step of the process involves pipelined realigner target creation, local realignment, and marking of duplicate reads. In some embodiments, these steps can use Queue. In an exemplary implementation, the Queue pipeline is a modified Queue pipeline based on the DataProcessingPipeline.scala script included in the Queue v.2.3-9 distribution version. In some exemplary embodiments, the improvements include one or more of the following: customizing memory and thread usage parameters to suit the computing platform; using a modified Smith-Waterman local realignment option; removing the base quality score recalibration step (BQSR), and/or Queue analysis and BAM output are limited to regions of interest (e.g., coding exons +/- about 50 bases), which are optionally filled with additional bases, such as about 150 bases. In some embodiments, Picard's MarkDuplicates application is used to perform obvious duplicate fragment removal (i.e., de-duplication), which can be pipelined using Queue. The output of these steps is a processed sequence BAM file containing all reads for each sample realigned to the region of interest with duplicates removed. 在一些实施方案中，省略掉碱基质量分数重新校准(BQSR)以改善计算时间约束。在测序的感兴趣区域较小，例如为几个选定的感兴趣的基因的情况下，这样的改良是有用的。当关注较小的感兴趣区域时，BQSR的功能发挥不太好，因为它依赖于对基因组足够宽泛的采样，使得常见的变体(例如，如果参考序列包含稀有等位基因，则大多数样品将在该位置具有变体)不干扰重新校准。In some embodiments, base quality score recalibration (BQSR) is omitted to improve computational time constraints. Such improvements are useful when the region of interest being sequenced is small, such as a few selected genes of interest. BQSR does not function well when focusing on smaller regions of interest, because it relies on sampling the genome broadly enough so that common variants (e.g., if the reference sequence contains a rare allele, most samples will have a variant at that position) do not interfere with recalibration. 局部重新比对对于插入和缺失灵敏度是很重要的。虽然改良的Smith-Waterman比对是标准的比对工具，但它是计算密集的。在本文提供的方法中，使用改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对，其将重新比对限于感兴趣的区域，例如几个选定的感兴趣的基因(例如，BRCA1和BRCA2基因)。这种改良可减少重新比对目标创建和局部重新比对步骤的计算持续时间。这还使得系统更快速、更高效，因为可以减少运行时间。Local realignment is very important for insertion and deletion sensitivity. Although the modified Smith-Waterman alignment is a standard alignment tool, it is computationally intensive. In the method provided herein, a modified Smith-Waterman local realignment is used, which limits the realignment to a region of interest, such as several selected genes of interest (e.g., BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes). This improvement can reduce the computational duration of the realignment target creation and local realignment steps. This also makes the system faster and more efficient because the run time can be reduced. 去重(deduplication)对于最小化扩增偏倚的影响是重要的。去重的功能是通过标记出在与参考序列比对时具有相同起点和终点的读段来去除明显的PCR重复。由于剪切是随机的，片段偶然具有相同起点和终点的几率极小，所以将这些片段从下游分析中去除(只保留表观克隆组的最高质量的片段)。在去重后，杂合变异体的等位基因平衡倾向于接近预期的50％，这对于灵敏度(例如，如果由于扩增偏倚而降低太低，则可能遗漏该变体)和接合性检测(例如，如果太高，则可能会被误认为是纯合的)是重要的。本文所述的用于通过在生物信息学过程中诱饵捕获和去重来制备样品的上游工艺方法有利于所需的等位基因平衡。Deduplication is important for minimizing the impact of amplification bias. The function of deduplication is to remove obvious PCR duplications by marking the reads with the same starting and ending points when compared with the reference sequence. Since shearing is random, the probability that a fragment accidentally has the same starting and ending points is extremely small, so these fragments are removed from downstream analysis (only the highest quality fragments of the apparent clone group are retained). After deduplication, the allele balance of heterozygous variants tends to be close to the expected 50%, which is important for sensitivity (for example, if it is reduced too low due to amplification bias, the variant may be missed) and zygosity detection (for example, if it is too high, it may be mistaken for homozygous). The upstream process method for preparing samples by bait capture and deduplication in the bioinformatics process described herein is conducive to the required allele balance. 然后在感兴趣区域(编码外显子+/-50个碱基)的每个位置判读变体。在一个实现方式中，可以使用GATK v 2.3-9中的UnifiedGenotyper。在一个具体实施方案中，采用GATK，其使用发现(discovery)模式，输出所有位点(emit all sites)，判读插入缺失和点突变，其中最大替代等位基因设置为2，并且indel空位开放罚分为30。判读所有变体的每一个位置可确保变体判读不被抑制(suppress)。确保不抑制变体判读对于本方法是重要的。例如，如果变体判读被抑制，则可能遗漏缺失，导致不太准确的结果。在每个位置强制变体判读后，不具有变体的位置被过滤掉，其余变体继续进行到下游处理。Variants are then interpreted at each position of the region of interest (coding exon +/- 50 bases). In one implementation, the UnifiedGenotyper in GATK v 2.3-9 can be used. In a specific embodiment, GATK is used, which uses discovery mode, outputs all sites, and interprets insertions, deletions, and point mutations, wherein the maximum alternative allele is set to 2, and the indel gap open penalty is 30. Interpreting each position of all variants can ensure that the variant interpretation is not suppressed. It is important to ensure that the variant interpretation is not suppressed for this method. For example, if the variant interpretation is suppressed, deletions may be omitted, resulting in less accurate results. After the variant interpretation is forced at each position, the position without the variant is filtered out, and the remaining variants proceed to downstream processing. GATK中的变体判读可以在发现模式或基因分型模式下执行，其中提供一系列变体用于判读存在或不存在。在一些实施方案中，可以进行这两种类型的变体判读，并将结果合并，以使灵敏度最大化。这样的方法可以解决在样品制备中使用不同扩增方案时遇到的问题(例如，无法除去PCR重复的情况)。Variant calls in GATK can be performed in discovery mode or genotyping mode, where a series of variants are provided for calling presence or absence. In some embodiments, both types of variant calls can be performed and the results combined to maximize sensitivity. Such an approach can solve problems encountered when using different amplification schemes in sample preparation (e.g., situations where PCR duplicates cannot be removed). 在本发明的具体实施方案中，可以相应地实施过滤器或阈值，以区分显示可接受的碱基质量的序列数据和显示不可接受的碱基质量的序列数据。如本文中使用的术语“可接受的碱基质量”是指约20和更高的phred样质量得分。phred样质量得分是Q分数，其为-10log10(e)，其中e是碱基判读错误的估计概率。该方法通常用于测量序列数据的准确性。较高质量得分表示碱基被错误判读的可能性较小。因此，质量得分20因此代表错误率为1/100，相应的判读准确度为99％。在本发明的进一步的具体实施方案中，可以实施过滤器或阈值以区分显示可接受的覆盖度的序列数据和显示不可接受的覆盖度的序列数据。如本文中使用的术语“可接受的覆盖度”是指约20×和以上的覆盖度。因此，在比对中覆盖某一碱基的读段的数量为约20或以上。In a specific embodiment of the present invention, a filter or threshold value can be implemented accordingly to distinguish between sequence data showing acceptable base quality and sequence data showing unacceptable base quality. As used herein, the term 'acceptable base quality' refers to a phred-like quality score of about 20 and higher. The phred-like quality score is a Q score, which is -10log 10 (e), where e is the estimated probability of a base call error. This method is generally used to measure the accuracy of sequence data. A higher quality score indicates that the base is less likely to be misread. Therefore, a quality score of 20 therefore represents an error rate of 1/100, and the corresponding accuracy of reading is 99%. In a further specific embodiment of the present invention, a filter or threshold value can be implemented to distinguish between sequence data showing acceptable coverage and sequence data showing unacceptable coverage. As used herein, the term 'acceptable coverage' refers to a coverage of about 20× and above. Therefore, the number of reads covering a certain base in the comparison is about 20 or more. 在本发明的进一步的具体实施方案中，可以实施过滤器或阈值以区分显示周围区域的可接受的高复杂性的序列数据和显示周围区域的中等到低复杂性的序列数据。如本文中使用的术语“周围区域的高复杂性”是指存在重复的序列段，例如，存在重复的二聚体、三聚体，存在转座子残迹或源自转座子等的重复序列。In further embodiments of the present invention, filters or thresholds may be implemented to distinguish between sequence data showing acceptable high complexity of the surrounding region and sequence data showing medium to low complexity of the surrounding region. As used herein, the term 'high complexity of the surrounding region' refers to the presence of repeated sequence segments, for example, the presence of repeated dimers, trimers, the presence of transposon remnants or repetitive sequences derived from transposons, etc. 在本发明的又另一个具体实施方案中，可以实施过滤器或阈值以区分显示可接受的错配长度的序列数据和显示不可接受的错配长度的序列数据。如本文中使用的术语“可接受的错配长度”是指不允许读段与参考序列完全匹配的空位。相应的匹配可以是连续匹配和约70％及以上的非连续匹配。In yet another specific embodiment of the present invention, a filter or threshold can be implemented to distinguish between sequence data showing an acceptable mismatch length and sequence data showing an unacceptable mismatch length. As used herein, the term 'acceptable mismatch length' refers to a gap that does not allow the read to completely match the reference sequence. The corresponding matches can be continuous matches and non-continuous matches of about 70% and above. 二进制比对/映射格式Binary comparison/mapping format 图6是根据说明性实施方式的计算机系统的框图。该计算机系统可用于上文所述的序列数据分析，包括执行QSAP管线中的一个或多个或所有步骤。示例性计算系统600包括总线605或用于传送信息的其他通信组件，以及耦合到总线605以处理信息的处理器610或处理电路。计算系统600还可以包括耦合到总线以处理信息的一个或多个处理器610或处理电路。计算系统600还包括耦合到总线605以存储信息以及要由处理器610执行的指令的主存储器615，比如随机存取存储器(RAM)或其他动态存储装置。主存储器615还可以用于在处理器610执行指令期间存储位置信息、临时变量或其他中间信息。计算系统600可以进一步包括耦合到总线605的只读存储器(ROM)620或其他静态存储装置，用于存储处理器610的静态信息和指令的。存储装置625，例如固态器件、磁盘或光盘，耦合到总线605，用于持久存储信息和指令。FIG6 is a block diagram of a computer system according to an illustrative embodiment. The computer system can be used for the sequence data analysis described above, including performing one or more or all steps in the QSAP pipeline. The exemplary computing system 600 includes a bus 605 or other communication components for transmitting information, and a processor 610 or processing circuit coupled to the bus 605 to process information. The computing system 600 may also include one or more processors 610 or processing circuits coupled to the bus to process information. The computing system 600 also includes a main memory 615 coupled to the bus 605 to store information and instructions to be executed by the processor 610, such as a random access memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device. The main memory 615 can also be used to store position information, temporary variables or other intermediate information during the execution of instructions by the processor 610. The computing system 600 may further include a read-only memory (ROM) 620 or other static storage device coupled to the bus 605 for storing static information and instructions of the processor 610. A storage device 625, such as a solid-state device, a magnetic disk or an optical disk, is coupled to the bus 605 for persistent storage of information and instructions. 计算系统600可以经由总线605耦合到显示器635，比如液晶显示器或有源矩阵显示器，用于向用户显示信息。输入设备630，诸如包括字母数字键和其他键的键盘，可以耦合到总线605，用于将信息和命令选择传送到处理器610。在另一个实现方式中，输入装置630具有触摸屏显示器635。输入装置630可以包括光标控制器，诸如鼠标、轨迹球或光标方向键，用于将方向信息和命令选择传送到处理器610，并用于控制显示器635上的光标移动。The computing system 600 may be coupled to a display 635, such as a liquid crystal display or an active matrix display, via the bus 605, for displaying information to a user. An input device 630, such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys, may be coupled to the bus 605 for communicating information and command selections to the processor 610. In another implementation, the input device 630 has a touch screen display 635. The input device 630 may include a cursor controller, such as a mouse, trackball, or cursor direction keys, for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor 610 and for controlling cursor movement on the display 635. 根据各种实现方式，本文描述的过程可以由计算系统600响应于处理器610执行包含在主存储器615中的指令安排(arrangement of instructions)来实现。这样的指令可以从另一计算机可读介质(比如存储装置625)读入主存储器615。包含在主存储器615中的指令安排被执行，使得计算系统600实施本文所述的例示性过程。也可以采用多处理安排(multi-processing arrangement)中的一个或多个处理器来执行包含在主存储器615中的指令。在替代实施方案中，可以用硬线电路代替软件指令或与软件指令组合，来实现例示性的实施方式。因此，实现方式不限于硬件电路和软件的任何特定组合。According to various implementations, the processes described herein may be implemented by the computing system 600 in response to the processor 610 executing an arrangement of instructions contained in the main memory 615. Such instructions may be read into the main memory 615 from another computer-readable medium, such as the storage device 625. The arrangement of instructions contained in the main memory 615 is executed, causing the computing system 600 to perform the illustrative processes described herein. One or more processors in a multi-processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in the main memory 615. In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the illustrative embodiments. Thus, implementations are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software. 尽管在图6中已经描述了示例性计算系统，但是在本说明书中描述的实现方式可以在其他类型的数字电子电路中，或在计算机软件、固件或硬件中实现，包括本说明书中公开的结构及其结构等同物、或者它们中的一者或多者的组合。Although an exemplary computing system has been described in FIG. 6 , the implementations described in this specification may be implemented in other types of digital electronic circuits, or in computer software, firmware, or hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents, or a combination of one or more of them. 在本说明书中描述的实施方式可以在数字电子电路中，或在计算机软件、固件或硬件中实施，包括本说明书中公开的结构及其结构等同物、或者它们中的一者或多者的组合。在本说明书中描述的实施方式可以作为一个或多个计算机程序——即一个或多个计算机程序指令的模块，所述指令被编码在一个或多个计算机存储介质上，用于由数据处理设备执行或控制数据处理设备的操作——来实施。替代地或另外地，程序指令可以编码在人工生成的传播信号上，例如机器生成的电、光或电磁信号，这些信号被生成以编码用于传输到适合的接收器设备以供数据处理设备执行的信息。计算机存储介质可以是，或者包括于，计算机可读存储装置、计算机可读存储基板、随机或串行存取存储器阵列或装置，或是它们中一个或多个的组合。而且，虽然计算机存储介质不是传播信号，但是计算机存储介质可以是编码在人工生成的传播信号中的计算机程序指令的来源或目的地。计算机存储介质还可以是，或者包括于，一个或多个分离的物理组件或介质(例如，多张CD、磁盘或其他存储装置)。因此，计算机存储介质是有形的和非瞬态的。The embodiments described in this specification may be implemented in digital electronic circuits, or in computer software, firmware or hardware, including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents, or a combination of one or more of them. The embodiments described in this specification may be implemented as one or more computer programs, i.e., modules of one or more computer program instructions, which are encoded on one or more computer storage media for execution by a data processing device or for controlling the operation of a data processing device. Alternatively or additionally, program instructions may be encoded on artificially generated propagation signals, such as machine-generated electrical, optical or electromagnetic signals, which are generated to encode information for transmission to a suitable receiver device for execution by a data processing device. A computer storage medium may be, or include, a computer-readable storage device, a computer-readable storage substrate, a random or serial access memory array or device, or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover, although a computer storage medium is not a propagation signal, a computer storage medium may be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagation signal. A computer storage medium may also be, or include, one or more separate physical components or media (e.g., multiple CDs, disks or other storage devices). Therefore, computer storage media are tangible and non-transitory. 本说明书中描述的操作可以由数据处理设备对存储在一个或多个计算机可读存储装置的数据或从其他来源接收执行。术语“数据处理设备”或“计算装置”包括所有种类的用于处理数据的设备、装置和机器，举例来说，其包括可编程处理器、计算机、片上系统，或前述各项中的多项或前述各项的组合。所述设备可以包括特殊目的逻辑电路，例如，FPGA(现场可编程门阵列)或ASIC(专用集成电路)。除硬件外，所述设备还可以包括创建所讨论的计算机程序的执行环境的代码，例如构成处理器固件、协议栈、数据库管理系统、操作系统、跨平台运行时环境、虚拟机，或者它们中的一者或多者的组合的代码。设备和执行环境可以实现各种不同的计算模型基础设施，如Web服务、分布式计算和网格计算基础设施。The operations described in this specification can be performed by a data processing device on data stored in one or more computer-readable storage devices or received from other sources. The term 'data processing device' or 'computing device' includes all kinds of devices, devices and machines for processing data, for example, including programmable processors, computers, systems on chips, or multiple of the foregoing or a combination of the foregoing. The device may include special purpose logic circuits, for example, FPGAs (field programmable gate arrays) or ASICs (application-specific integrated circuits). In addition to hardware, the device may also include code for creating an execution environment for the computer program in question, such as code constituting processor firmware, protocol stacks, database management systems, operating systems, cross-platform runtime environments, virtual machines, or a combination of one or more of them. The device and execution environment can implement a variety of different computing model infrastructures, such as Web services, distributed computing, and grid computing infrastructures. 计算机程序(也称为程序、软件、软件应用程序、脚本或代码)可以使用任何形式的编程语言编写，包括编译或解释语言、说明性或过程语言，并且可以部署为任何形式，包括作为独立的程序或者作为模块、组件、子例程、对象或适合于在计算环境中使用的其他单元。计算机程序可以但不一定对应于文件系统中的文件。可以将程序存储于保持其他程序或数据的文件(例如，存储在标记语言文档的一个或多个脚本)的一部分、专用于所讨论的程序的单个文件、或多个协调文件(例如，存储一个或多个模块、子程序或部分代码的文件)中。计算机程序可以被部署为在一台计算机上或位于一个站点或分布在多个站点并通过通信网络互连的多台计算机上执行。A computer program (also referred to as a program, software, software application, script, or code) may be written in any form of programming language, including compiled or interpreted languages, declarative or procedural languages, and may be deployed in any form, including as a stand-alone program or as a module, component, subroutine, object, or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may, but does not necessarily, correspond to a file in a file system. A program may be stored as part of a file that holds other programs or data (e.g., one or more scripts stored in a markup language document), a single file dedicated to the program in question, or multiple coordinated files (e.g., files storing one or more modules, subroutines, or portions of code). A computer program may be deployed to execute on a single computer or on multiple computers located at a single site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. 举例来说，适于执行计算机程序的处理器包括通用和专用微处理器、以及任何类型的数字计算机的任何一个或多个处理器。通常，处理器接收来自只读存储器或随机存取存储器或两者的指令和数据。计算机的基本元件是：用于根据指令执行动作的处理器，以及一个或多个用于存储指令和数据的存储器装置。通常，计算机还将包括一个或多个用于存储数据的大容量存储装置，诸如磁盘、磁光盘或光盘，和/或与大容量存储装置可操作地耦合以接收数据或传输数据。然而，计算机不必具有这样的装置。而且，计算机可被嵌入到另一个装置中，仅举几例，例如移动电话、个人数字助理(PDA)、移动音频或视频播放器、游戏控制台、全球定位系统(GPS)接收器或便携式存储装置(例如，通用串行总线(USB)闪存驱动器)。适于存储计算机程序指令和数据的装置包括所有形式的非易失性存储器、介质和存储器装置，例如包括半导体存储器装置，例如EPROM、EEPROM和闪存装置；磁盘，例如内部硬盘或可移动盘；磁光盘；以及CDROM和DVD-ROM盘。处理器和存储器可以由专用逻辑电路补充，或并入其中。For example, processors suitable for executing computer programs include general and special purpose microprocessors, and any one or more processors of any type of digital computer. Typically, the processor receives instructions and data from a read-only memory or a random access memory or both. The basic elements of a computer are: a processor for performing actions according to instructions, and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Typically, the computer will also include one or more mass storage devices for storing data, such as magnetic disks, magneto-optical disks, or optical disks, and/or be operably coupled to mass storage devices to receive data or transmit data. However, the computer does not have to have such a device. Moreover, the computer can be embedded in another device, such as a mobile phone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a mobile audio or video player, a game console, a global positioning system (GPS) receiver, or a portable storage device (e.g., a universal serial bus (USB) flash drive), to name a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non-volatile memory, media, and memory devices, such as semiconductor memory devices, such as EPROM, EEPROM, and flash memory devices; magnetic disks, such as internal hard disks or removable disks; magneto-optical disks; and CDROM and DVD-ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by, or incorporated in, special purpose logic circuitry. 数据报告/输出Data reporting/export 在变体判读的下游，可以使用度量报告生成器(例如，QC度量(例如读段数、平均覆盖度、最小覆盖度))来计算每样品的区域最小覆盖深度(计数感兴趣的区域中每个位置上具有至少Q30的读段)，然后在专门的数据库中进行结果解析和编目，其中最小覆盖度低于20个读段的样品(去除重复读段之后)被标记为重复。Downstream of variant calling, a metric report generator (e.g., QC metrics (e.g., number of reads, average coverage, minimum coverage)) can be used to calculate the regional minimum coverage depth for each sample (counting reads with at least Q30 at each position in the region of interest), and then the results are interpreted and catalogued in a dedicated database, where samples with a minimum coverage below 20 reads (after removing duplicate reads) are marked as duplicates. 在本发明的一些实施方案中，如上所述的序列分析管线可以与诊断决策支持系统相关联或连接。如本文中使用的“诊断决策支持系统”是指这样的系统，其包括用于提供受试者的序列数据的输入，以及在具体实施方案中任选地包含其功能读出(例如基因或非编码RNA表达、或蛋白质水平)。另外，该系统包括用于将包含核酸片段读段的核酸序列数据装配成连续核苷酸序列区段的程序元件或计算机程序或软件(当被处理器执行时，其被适配为进行如上文定义的方法的步骤)、以及用于输出受试者的连续核苷酸序列区段变异的输出、和用于存储输出信息的介质。优选地，输出信息能够指示基因组修饰的存在或不存在，更优选地指示受试者罹患疾病或具有疾病易感性。In some embodiments of the present invention, the sequence analysis pipeline as described above can be associated or connected with a diagnostic decision support system. As used herein, a 'diagnostic decision support system' refers to a system comprising an input for providing sequence data of a subject, and optionally comprising its functional readout (e.g., gene or non-coding RNA expression, or protein level) in a specific embodiment. In addition, the system includes a program element or computer program or software for assembling nucleic acid sequence data comprising nucleic acid fragment reads into continuous nucleotide sequence segments (when executed by a processor, it is adapted to perform the steps of the method defined above), and an output for outputting the continuous nucleotide sequence segment variation of the subject, and a medium for storing output information. Preferably, the output information can indicate the presence or absence of a genomic modification, more preferably indicating that the subject suffers from a disease or has a disease susceptibility. 可以对变体判读文件数据进行自动初步评估，并作为注释文件返回(retuned)。初始自动评估可以包括变体分子分类(例如同义、错义、无义、移码)、全面临床证据(大部分由科学家从同行评议的文献中拣选)和基于证据的临床决策支持，其有助于观察到的变体的初始分类。初步自动评估可改善周转时间，并最大限度地增加用于变体的最终临床评估的信息。评估软件可以使用预定义的评分和分类规则进行配置，所述规则包括美国医学遗传学学院(American College of Medical Genetics)推荐的指南和/或证据的汇编，包括最新的文献。评估软件可以为审阅者提供对变体相关文献的直接访问，并提供关于自动评估如何获得的透明度，以便于审阅原始数据。也可以通过Web界面、另外的基因座特异性数据库和验证性查询，利用人工审查进行最终分类。Variant interpretation file data can be automatically preliminarily evaluated and returned as an annotation file (retuned). Initial automatic evaluation can include variant molecular classification (such as synonymous, missense, nonsense, frameshift), comprehensive clinical evidence (mostly selected by scientists from peer-reviewed literature) and clinical decision support based on evidence, which contributes to the initial classification of observed variants. Preliminary automatic evaluation can improve turnaround time and maximize the information for the final clinical evaluation of variants. Evaluation software can be configured using predefined scoring and classification rules, and the rules include the compilation of guidelines and/or evidence recommended by the American College of Medical Genetics (American College of Medical Genetics), including the latest literature. Evaluation software can provide direct access to variant related documents for reviewers, and provide transparency about how automatic evaluation is obtained, so as to review raw data. It is also possible to use manual review to perform final classification through Web interface, other locus-specific databases and confirmatory queries. 可以将测序数据或评估分析向认证实验室、医师或直接向患者报告。定制可视化(customized visualization)可用于人工审阅提交给临床报告的结果。在本发明的又另一个实施方案中，诊断决策支持系统可以是电子图片/数据归档和通信系统。在一些实施方案中，测序数据或评估分析提供了患者患有疾病或病症的概率分数。在一些实施方案中，测序数据或评估分析提供了患者具有发生疾病或病症的风险的概率分数。The sequencing data or the evaluation analysis can be reported to the certification laboratory, the physician or directly to the patient. Custom visualization can be used for manually reviewing the results submitted to the clinical report. In another embodiment of the present invention, the diagnostic decision support system can be an electronic picture/data archiving and communication system. In some embodiments, the sequencing data or the evaluation analysis provides a probability score that the patient suffers from a disease or condition. In some embodiments, the sequencing data or the evaluation analysis provides a probability score that the patient has a risk of developing a disease or condition. 可以根据本发明检测或诊断或预测的疾病或病症可以是本领域技术人员已知的任何可检测的疾病。在优选的实施方案中，所述疾病可以是遗传性疾病或病症，特别是可以基于基因组序列数据检测到的病症。这些病症包括但不限于例如在适当的科学文献、临床或医学出版物、合格的教科书、公共信息库、互联网资源或数据库中提到的病症，特别是在http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_genetic_disorders中提到的一种或多种病症。The disease or condition that can be detected or diagnosed or predicted according to the present invention can be any detectable disease known to those skilled in the art. In a preferred embodiment, the disease can be a hereditary disease or condition, particularly a condition that can be detected based on genome sequence data. These conditions include, but are not limited to, conditions such as those mentioned in appropriate scientific literature, clinical or medical publications, qualified textbooks, public information repositories, internet resources or databases, particularly one or more conditions mentioned in http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_genetic_disorders. 在本发明的一个特别优选的实施方案中，被检测或诊断或预测的疾病是癌性疾病，例如，本领域技术人员已知的任何癌性疾病或肿瘤。在具体实施方案中，被检测或诊断或预测的疾病是乳腺癌、卵巢癌或前列腺癌。In a particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention, the disease detected or diagnosed or predicted is a cancerous disease, for example, any cancerous disease or tumor known to those skilled in the art. In a specific embodiment, the disease detected or diagnosed or predicted is breast cancer, ovarian cancer or prostate cancer. 在特定实施方案中，所述诊断决策支持系统可以是分子肿瘤学决策工作站。决策工作站可优选地用于决定受试者的癌症治疗的开始和/或继续。进一步设想了对于不同疾病类型、例如对于上述提到的任何疾病的类似决策工作站。In certain embodiments, the diagnostic decision support system can be a molecular oncology decision workstation. The decision workstation can preferably be used to decide on the start and/or continuation of cancer treatment for a subject. Similar decision workstations for different disease types, such as for any of the diseases mentioned above, are further contemplated. 实施例Example 实施例1Example 1 本公开描述了适合于临床实验室的用于检测BRCA1和BRCA2变体的快速高通量测序测定法的开发和验证。利用MiSeq/QSAP联合一式二份测试的初始1006份临床样品的结果显示没有差异性变体判读。在一个实施方案中，使用诱饵小区外显子捕获的基于NGS的测定法在参考实验室中检测BRCA1/2变体。在测试过程中，采用了两种不同的NGS平台：IlluminaMiSeq系统和Life Technologies Ion Torrent个人化操作基因组测序仪。正如下面解释的，使用两个NGS平台获得前521份临床样品的结果，并且使用重复MiSeq运行获得另外1006个结果。The present disclosure describes the development and validation of a rapid high-throughput sequencing assay suitable for clinical laboratories for detecting BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. Results from an initial 1006 clinical samples tested in duplicate using the MiSeq/QSAP combination showed no differential variant calls. In one embodiment, an NGS-based assay using bait cell exon capture was used to detect BRCA1/2 variants in a reference laboratory. During testing, two different NGS platforms were used: the Illumina MiSeq system and the Life Technologies Ion Torrent personalized genome sequencer. As explained below, results for the first 521 clinical samples were obtained using the two NGS platforms, and an additional 1006 results were obtained using duplicate MiSeq runs. 图1展示了检测BRCA1和BRCA2变体的NGS测定法的总体概述。下面的说明描述了本发明的一个实现方式。Figure 1 shows a general overview of an NGS assay for detecting BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The following description describes one implementation of the present invention. DNA样品DNA samples 来自具有在BRCA1(n＝21；表1)或BRCA2(n＝6；表1)中的已知有害变体的细胞系的DNA样品购自Coriell Mutant Cell Repository(Camden,NJ)。这些参考样品包含致病和非致病性变体。在一个实现方式中，获得了67名未受影响的、先前未测试过BRCA突变的个体的血液样品。进行Sanger测序以确定BRCA1或BRCA2序列变异的存在。在此实现方式中，在志愿者人群中鉴定出352个良性变体，并将它们用于技术验证。DNA samples from cell lines with known deleterious variants in BRCA1 (n=21; Table 1) or BRCA2 (n=6; Table 1) were purchased from the Coriell Mutant Cell Repository (Camden, NJ). These reference samples contained both pathogenic and non-pathogenic variants. In one implementation, blood samples from 67 unaffected individuals who had not been previously tested for BRCA mutations were obtained. Sanger sequencing was performed to determine the presence of BRCA1 or BRCA2 sequence variations. In this implementation, 352 benign variants were identified in the volunteer population and used for technical validation. DNA制备DNA preparation 按照制造商的说明，使用Roche Molecular Systems(Indianapolis,IN)的RocheMagnapureTM系统在96孔微量滴定板中从外周血细胞分离基因组DNA。根据制造商的说明，使用自适应聚焦声波技术(E220Focused Ultra-Sonicator,Covaris Inc.,Woburn,MA)，将基因组DNA随机剪切至250个碱基对的平均大小。Genomic DNA was isolated from peripheral blood cells in 96-well microtiter plates using the Roche Magnapure ™ system of Roche Molecular Systems (Indianapolis, IN) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Genomic DNA was randomly sheared to an average size of 250 base pairs using adaptive focused acoustic wave technology (E220 Focused Ultra-Sonicator, Covaris Inc., Woburn, MA) according to the manufacturer's instructions. 通过SPRI珠子和PEG/氯化钠混合物浓缩Concentration by SPRI beads and PEG/NaCl mixture 剪切后，将DNA浓缩2倍，除去大小不够的DNA分子。这是用SPRI(固相可逆固定)珠子(AMPure Beads,Agencourt,Beverley,MA)完成的。将珠子悬浮在EDTA-聚乙二醇(PEG)溶液中。After shearing, the DNA was concentrated 2-fold to remove DNA molecules of insufficient size. This was done using SPRI (solid phase reversible immobilization) beads (AMPure Beads, Agencourt, Beverley, MA). The beads were suspended in an EDTA-polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution. DNA末端修复DNA end repair 在连接衔接子之前修复DNA分子的末端。这是使用同时具有5'至3'聚合酶活性和3'至5'核酸外切酶活性的DNA聚合酶完成的，从而填充5'突出端并去除3'突出端以产生平端。另外，DNA片段的5'端也在该过程中被磷酸化。The ends of the DNA molecules are repaired before the adapters are ligated. This is done using a DNA polymerase that has both 5' to 3' polymerase activity and 3' to 5' exonuclease activity, thereby filling in the 5' overhang and removing the 3' overhang to produce a blunt end. In addition, the 5' end of the DNA fragment is also phosphorylated in the process. 衔接子连接和缺口修复Adapter ligation and gap repair 每个5'衔接子含有独特的分子鉴别(MID)序列(条形码)，用于标识个体的DNA样品。另外，它包含P5序列的一部分。3'衔接子对于所有标本是共同的，且包含P7MiSeq序列的一部分。两个衔接子都未被5'磷酸化。连接反应中还可以纳入与每个衔接子互补的短寡核苷酸，以确保衔接子仅与DNA片段连接，而不与自身连接。在连接过程中，两个衔接子的摩尔比彼此相等，但与片段化的DNA相比是过量的。在这个程序之后，全部连接产物的大约一半是优选的种类，即：5’-(P5)-MID-BRCA_基因DNA-共同(P7)-3’。如上所述使用SPRI珠子清理样品，并通过DNA聚合酶修复连接位点处的缺口。聚合酶在缺口位点添加核苷酸，产生用于PCR扩增的引物结合位点。Each 5' adapter contains a unique molecular identification (MID) sequence (barcode) that identifies an individual's DNA sample. In addition, it contains a portion of the P5 sequence. The 3' adapter is common to all specimens and contains a portion of the P7 MiSeq sequence. Both adapters are not 5' phosphorylated. A short oligonucleotide complementary to each adapter can also be included in the ligation reaction to ensure that the adapter only ligates to the DNA fragment and not to itself. During the ligation process, the molar ratio of the two adapters is equal to each other, but is in excess compared to the fragmented DNA. After this procedure, approximately half of all ligation products are the preferred species, namely: 5'-(P5)-MID-BRCA_gene DNA-common (P7)-3'. The sample is cleaned up using SPRI beads as described above, and the gap at the ligation site is repaired by DNA polymerase. The polymerase adds nucleotides at the gap site to create a primer binding site for PCR amplification. 预杂交扩增Pre-hybridization amplification 为了提高加有衔接子的(adapted)DNA片段的比率，进行了非等位基因特异性PCR。所使用的引物与5'和3'衔接子序列互补。In order to increase the ratio of adapted DNA fragments, non-allele-specific PCR was performed. The primers used were complementary to the 5' and 3' adaptor sequences. 通过外显子捕获富集靶标Target enrichment by exon capture 将全部加有条形码的患者DNA片段合并以产生“文库”，加入到杂交反应混合物中并在65℃下温育12小时。该混合物含有生物素化的RNA诱饵。诱饵与BRCA1和BRCA2基因(外显子区和剪接接合位点、以及选定的内含子区)互补，以允许与适当的患者DNA片段杂交。杂交后，将文库与包被有链霉亲和素的珠子混合，以吸附生物素化的RNA诱饵。在70℃下洗涤文库-RNA诱饵杂交物，以去除非BRCA DNA。All barcoded patient DNA fragments were pooled to create a 'library', added to a hybridization reaction mixture and incubated at 65°C for 12 hours. This mixture contained biotinylated RNA baits. The baits were complementary to the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes (exon regions and splice junctions, and selected intronic regions) to allow hybridization with the appropriate patient DNA fragments. After hybridization, the library was mixed with beads coated with streptavidin to adsorb the biotinylated RNA baits. The library-RNA bait hybrids were washed at 70°C to remove non-BRCA DNA. 第二非特异性扩增Second non-specific amplification 利用融合引物，将Illumina MiSeqTM(Illumina,San Diego,CA)或IonTorrentTMPersonal Gene Machine(PGM)(Life Technologies,Grand Island,NY)测序平台所需的额外序列添加至5'和3'衔接子。将DNA文库分成两半。将其中的一半用具有与5'和3'衔接子互补的部分、并可添加用于MiSeq测序的额外序列的融合引物(P5和P7序列)扩增，另一半用可添加用于PGM测序的额外序列的一组引物(P1和A序列)扩增。Fusion primers were used to add additional sequences required for the Illumina MiSeq ™ (Illumina, San Diego, CA) or IonTorrent ™ Personal Gene Machine (PGM) (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY) sequencing platforms to the 5' and 3' adapters. The DNA library was split into two halves. One half was amplified with fusion primers (P5 and P7 sequences) that have complementary portions to the 5' and 3' adapters and can add additional sequences for MiSeq sequencing, and the other half was amplified with a set of primers (P1 and A sequences) that can add additional sequences for PGM sequencing. 通过Qubit定量DNA浓度DNA concentration quantification by Qubit 使用高灵敏度Qubit试剂盒(Life Technologies)来定量DNA，该试剂盒使用基于插入染料的方法。DNA was quantified using the high sensitivity Qubit kit (Life Technologies), which uses an intercalating dye-based approach. NGS测序NGS Sequencing 稀释所制备的文库，以便从单个DNA分子扩增出良好分离的相同产物的簇(即克隆性扩增)。根据制造商的方案实施MiSeq和PGM NGS方案。The prepared libraries were diluted so that well-separated clusters of identical products were amplified from single DNA molecules (ie, clonal amplification).The MiSeq and PGM NGS protocols were performed according to the manufacturer's protocols. MiSeqMiSeq 将单链文库装入MiSeq测序盒的孔21。仪器使文库流过流动池，文库在流动池中与反义P5和P7寡核苷酸杂交，这些寡核苷酸与文库上的衔接子互补。稀释文库，以便从单个DNA分子扩增出良好分离的相同产物的簇(克隆性扩增)。这是通过等温桥扩增(isothermalbridge amplification)实现的。将荧光团标记的核苷三磷酸加到流动池中，然后用激光激发。MiSeq记录发射光谱，然后切割掉抑制进一步合成的核苷酸阻断剂，从而允许添加下一个核苷三磷酸。以这种方式对片段进行测序。The single-stranded library is loaded into well 21 of the MiSeq sequencing box. The instrument flows the library through a flow cell where it hybridizes with antisense P5 and P7 oligonucleotides that are complementary to the adapters on the library. The library is diluted so that well-separated clusters of identical products are amplified from a single DNA molecule (clonal amplification). This is achieved by isothermal bridge amplification. Fluorophore-labeled nucleoside triphosphates are added to the flow cell and then excited with a laser. MiSeq records the emission spectrum and then cuts off the nucleotide blocker that inhibits further synthesis, allowing the next nucleoside triphosphate to be added. The fragments are sequenced in this way. Ion TorrentTMPGMIon Torrent TM PGM PGM采用乳液PCR，即在油中漂浮的微小水滴内进行的扩增。进行乳液PCR以在单个测序“珠子”上获得单个DNA分子的许多拷贝(即克隆性扩增)。然后使用这些珠子来生成序列。在扩增溶液中使用的珠子覆盖有共价结合的寡核苷酸，这些寡核苷酸是对文库的P1序列反义的。微室(micro-chambers)由实施克隆性扩增的Ion Torrent One TouchInstrument 2(OT2,Life Technologies,Grand Island,NY)创建。PGM uses emulsion PCR, i.e., amplification performed in tiny water droplets floating in oil. Emulsion PCR is performed to obtain many copies of a single DNA molecule on a single sequencing 'bead' (i.e., clonal amplification). These beads are then used to generate sequences. The beads used in the amplification solution are covered with covalently bound oligonucleotides that are antisense to the P1 sequence of the library. Micro-chambers are created by the Ion Torrent One Touch Instrument 2 (OT2, Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY) that implements clonal amplification. 然后，由反义P1寡核苷酸延伸产生的DNA链在其3'端与测序引物杂交，该测序引物与反义寡核苷酸结合。向珠子中加入DNA聚合酶，然后将珠子沉积在计算机芯片状表面的微小孔中。然后使过量的四种dNTP中一种一种地在芯片的表面上依次流过。当有需要的核苷酸可用时，DNA聚合酶使生长链延伸。每当添加一个核苷酸时，释放一个氢分子，导致含有测序珠子的孔中的pH变化。pH变化的大小与掺入的核苷酸数目大致相等，并与四种核苷酸中流过的那种核苷酸一起被检测和测量。The DNA strand generated by the extension of the antisense P1 oligonucleotide is then hybridized at its 3' end to a sequencing primer that is bound to the antisense oligonucleotide. DNA polymerase is added to the beads, which are then deposited in tiny wells on a computer chip-like surface. Excess amounts of the four dNTPs are then flowed over the surface of the chip one by one. When the required nucleotide is available, the DNA polymerase extends the growing chain. Each time a nucleotide is added, a hydrogen molecule is released, causing a pH change in the well containing the sequencing beads. The size of the pH change is roughly equal to the number of nucleotides incorporated, and is detected and measured along with the one of the four nucleotides that flowed through. 生物信息学处理Bioinformatics processing 在测序反应之后，进行序列比对和等位基因指配。最初，对于MiSeq，使用随仪器提供的MiSeq ReporterTM软件。然而，这个过程并未一致地鉴定出大于9bp的缺失。为了鉴定大于9bp的缺失，使用了以下的工作流程，该流程被称为QSAP。QSAP是一个生物信息学管线(bioinformatics pipeline)。QSAP是总工作流程的一个专门化的部分，整合了开源的、内部开发的、和许可授权的序列分析模块。该分析管线使用高性能计算基础设施，包括：用于映射到hg19/GRCh37.1参考基因组的Burrows Wheeler Aligner(BWA)、以及结合基因组分析工具包(GATK)使用的Queue，用于去重、改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对、和变体判读。该管线被设计为最大限度地提高变体判读的准确性，减少分析时间并允许即时访问样本二进制比对/映射格式(BAM)和变体判读格式(VCF)文件。After the sequencing reaction, sequence alignment and allele assignment were performed. Initially, for MiSeq, the MiSeq Reporter TM software provided with the instrument was used. However, this process did not consistently identify deletions larger than 9 bp. To identify deletions larger than 9 bp, the following workflow was used, which is called QSAP. QSAP is a bioinformatics pipeline. QSAP is a specialized part of the overall workflow that integrates open source, in-house developed, and licensed sequence analysis modules. The analysis pipeline uses high-performance computing infrastructure, including: Burrows Wheeler Aligner (BWA) for mapping to the hg19/GRCh37.1 reference genome, and Queues used in conjunction with the Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK) for deduplication, modified Smith-Waterman local realignment, and variant calling. The pipeline is designed to maximize the accuracy of variant calls, reduce analysis time, and allow instant access to sample binary alignment/map format (BAM) and variant call format (VCF) files. 具体地说，在从MiSeq仪中复制样品FASTQ核苷酸序列文件(已在仪器上利用索引读段去多重化)后，过滤样品FASTQ文件以去除被标记为未通过供应商质量过滤器的读段。该过程可以使用序列排序工具，例如SAMtools(序列比对/映射工具)来执行。修剪掉衔接子和分子标识符(MID)标签序列(即，在核酸样品制备过程中连接到样品序列的标识符序列)。在一个实现方式中，使用FASTQ处理工具(比如fastq-mcf)来完成此过程，该工具扫描衔接子的序列文件，并且基于对数标度的阈值，确定一组剪切参数并执行剪切。Specifically, after copying the sample FASTQ nucleotide sequence file from the MiSeq instrument (which has been demultiplexed using index reads on the instrument), the sample FASTQ file is filtered to remove reads that are marked as not passing the supplier's quality filter. This process can be performed using a sequence sorting tool, such as SAMtools (sequence alignment/mapping tool). Adaptors and molecular identifier (MID) tag sequences (i.e., identifier sequences that are connected to the sample sequence during nucleic acid sample preparation) are trimmed. In one implementation, this process is accomplished using a FASTQ processing tool (such as fastq-mcf), which scans the sequence file for the adaptor and, based on a logarithmic scale threshold, determines a set of shearing parameters and performs shearing. 修剪后，将读段映射到基因组参考序列，进行排序和索引。这可以使用Burrows-Wheeler Aligner(例如版本0.7.5a-r405)(例如，使用命令：bwa mem-M-t 2)和SAMtools来完成。然后可以添加读段组。可以使用Picard添加读段组，Picard包括用于操作SAM文件的基于Java的命令行工具。该过程的接下来的步骤涉及管线重新比对目标创建、局部重新比对和重复读段的标记。在一些实现方式中，Queue可用于这些步骤。在一个实现方式中，Queue管线是基于Queue v.2.3-9分发版本中包含的DataProcessingPipeline.scala脚本。在该实现方式中进行了以下改良：定制了存储器和线程使用参数以适合计算平台，使用改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对选项，去除了碱基质量分数重新比对步骤，将Queue分析和BAM输出限于填补有150个额外碱基的感兴趣区域(编码外显子+/-50个碱基)。然后在感兴趣区域中(编码外显子+/-50个碱基)的每个位置判读变体。在一个实施方式中，采用GATKv 2.3-9中的UnifiedGenotyper，使用发现模式(discovery mode)，输出所有位点(emitall sites)，判读indel和点突变(calling indels and point mutations)，其中最大替代等位基因设置(maximum alternate alleles setting)为2，插入缺失空位开放罚分为30。After pruning, the reads are mapped to the genome reference sequence, sorted and indexed. This can be done using Burrows-Wheeler Aligner (e.g., version 0.7.5a-r405) (e.g., using command: bwa mem-M-t 2) and SAMtools. Read groups can then be added. Read groups can be added using Picard, which includes a Java-based command line tool for operating SAM files. The next steps of the process involve pipeline re-alignment target creation, local re-alignment, and marking of duplicate reads. In some implementations, Queue can be used for these steps. In one implementation, the Queue pipeline is based on the DataProcessingPipeline.scala script included in the Queue v.2.3-9 distribution version. The following improvements were made in this implementation: the memory and thread usage parameters were customized to suit the computing platform, a modified Smith-Waterman local realignment option was used, the base quality score realignment step was removed, and the Queue analysis and BAM output were limited to the region of interest (coding exons +/- 50 bases) filled with 150 additional bases. Variants were then called at each position in the region of interest (coding exons +/- 50 bases). In one embodiment, the UnifiedGenotyper in GATKv 2.3-9 was used, using the discovery mode, outputting all sites, calling indels and point mutations, with the maximum alternate allele setting of 2 and the insertion and deletion gap open penalty of 30. 对于PGM数据，使用随仪器提供的Torrent SuiteTM软件进行生物信息学分析。For PGM data, bioinformatics analysis was performed using the Torrent Suite ™ software provided with the instrument. 在变体判读的下游，可以使用度量报告生成器(例如，QC度量(例如读段数、平均覆盖度、最小覆盖度))来计算每个样品的区域最小覆盖深度(regional minimum coveragedepths)(计数感兴趣的区域中每个位置上具有至少Q30的读段)，然后在专门目的的数据库中进行结果解析和编目，其中将最小覆盖度低于20个读段的样品(去除重复读段之后)标记为重复。Downstream of variant calling, a metric report generator (e.g., QC metrics (e.g., number of reads, average coverage, minimum coverage)) can be used to calculate regional minimum coverage depths for each sample (counting reads with at least Q30 at each position in the region of interest), followed by interpretation and cataloguing of the results in a purpose-built database, where samples with minimum coverage below 20 reads (after removal of duplicate reads) are marked as duplicates. 在一些实施方案中，从Illumina MiSeq FASTQ文件到提交给认证的实验室的最终报告的序列信息均由BRCA1/2高级测序生物信息学模块化工作流程来管理；认证的实验室例如由CLIA(Clincal Laboratory Improvement Amendments，美国临床实验室改进法案修正案)或CAP(College of American Pathologist，美国病理学家协会)认证的实验室。在一些实施方案中，所述工作流程利用定制可视化手段来对提交给临床报告的结果进行人工审阅。In some embodiments, sequence information from Illumina MiSeq FASTQ files to final reports submitted to certified laboratories are managed by BRCA1/2 advanced sequencing bioinformatics modular workflows; certified laboratories, such as those certified by CLIA (Clincal Laboratory Improvement Amendments) or CAP (College of American Pathologists). In some embodiments, the workflow uses custom visualization tools to manually review the results submitted to clinical reports. 在一些实施方案中，去身份标识的(de-identified)VCF文件将经过自动初步评估，并生成注释文件。初始自动评估利用变体分子分类(例如同义、错义、无义、移码)、全面临床证据(大部分由科学家从同行评议的文献中拣选)，并提供基于证据的临床决策支持，可有助于对观察到的变体的初始分选。初步自动评估可改善周转时间，并最大限度地增加用于变体的最终临床评估的信息。该自动评估具有另外两个基本特征。首先，该评估是使用Quest Diagnostics预定义的评分和分类规则进行的，这些规则以美国医学遗传学学会(American College of Medical Genetics)推荐的指南作为中心思想，结合包括最新的文献在内的证据汇总。其次，评估软件可以为审阅者提供对变体相关文献的直接访问，并提供关于自动评估如何获得的透明度，以便于审阅原始数据。随后借助Ingenuity的VCS Web界面、其他基因座特异性数据库和验证性查询进行人工审阅，以完成最终分类。对于PGM数据，使用随仪器提供的Torrent SuiteTM软件进行生物信息学分析。In some embodiments, the de-identified VCF file will be automatically preliminarily evaluated and an annotation file will be generated. The initial automatic evaluation utilizes variant molecular classification (e.g., synonymous, missense, nonsense, frameshift), comprehensive clinical evidence (mostly selected by scientists from peer-reviewed literature), and provides evidence-based clinical decision support, which can help to initially sort the observed variants. The initial automatic evaluation can improve turnaround time and maximize the information used for the final clinical evaluation of the variant. The automatic evaluation has two other basic features. First, the evaluation is performed using Quest Diagnostics predefined scoring and classification rules, which are based on the guidelines recommended by the American College of Medical Genetics as the central idea, combined with evidence summary including the latest literature. Secondly, the evaluation software can provide reviewers with direct access to the relevant literature on the variants, and provide transparency on how the automatic evaluation is obtained, so as to facilitate the review of the original data. Subsequently, manual review is performed with the help of Ingenuity's VCS Web interface, other locus-specific databases, and confirmatory queries to complete the final classification. For PGM data, bioinformatics analysis was performed using the Torrent Suite ™ software provided with the instrument. 变体评估Variant Evaluation 根据美国医学遗传学学会的指南，由一队变体科学家(VS)人工进行变体评估。通过软件程序Alamut(其提供基因组坐标)和SIFT体外功能分析来分析VCF文件。VS重新检查单独运行的质量度量，如果运行通过QC，则继续进行评估。此时，还对来自MLPA反应的缺失/重复结果进行审阅。According to the guidelines of the American Medical Genetics Association, variant assessment is performed manually by a team of variant scientists (VS). VCF files are analyzed by software program Alamut (which provides genome coordinates) and SIFT in vitro functional analysis. VS rechecks the quality metrics of the individual runs and continues to assess if the run passes QC. At this point, the deletion/repetition results from the MLPA reaction are also reviewed. 然后，VS审阅被判读的变体，以确保与IGV数据一致。如果变体鉴定准确，则将变体从Alamut HT加载到被称为QuestIQ的专有数据库中。以下字段由Alamut HT软件界面自动填写：基因|变体、变体ID、参考序列、DNA水平、突变类型、代码解释、PUC、基因代码、外显子、核苷酸、变化、密码子、氨基酸、dbSNP rs号、dbSNP链接、SIFT、物种保护、到VUS分析文本的链接、到剪接报告的链接、和MolGen登录号。VS then reviews the variant calls to ensure consistency with the IGV data. If the variant identification is accurate, the variant is loaded from Alamut HT into a proprietary database called QuestIQ. The following fields are automatically filled in by the Alamut HT software interface: Gene|Variant, Variant ID, Reference Sequence, DNA Level, Mutation Type, Code Interpretation, PUC, Gene Code, Exon, Nucleotide, Change, Codon, Amino Acid, dbSNP rs Number, dbSNP Link, SIFT, Species Conservation, Link to VUS Analysis Text, Link to Splicing Report, and MolGen Accession Number. 然后，VS利用基因特异性数据库(例如UMD、BIC、LOVD、IARC、ClinVar、ARUP、kConFab、HGMD、InSIGHT)搜索进一步的信息。然后，使用ESP和dbSNP评估变体频率。如果适用，使用翻译后预测性数据库，如NetPhosk,NetPhos,ScanSite：S、T、Y磷酸化预测，Yin oYang：O连接的GlcNac预测。利用RefSeq数据库，使用Alamut HC中的链接软件进行剪接预测。然后使用功能预测程序SIFT和PolyPhen2。VS then searches for further information using gene-specific databases (e.g., UMD, BIC, LOVD, IARC, ClinVar, ARUP, kConFab, HGMD, InSIGHT). Variant frequencies are then assessed using ESP and dbSNP. If applicable, post-translational predictive databases are used, such as NetPhosk, NetPhos, ScanSite: S, T, Y phosphorylation predictions, Yin oYang: O-linked GlcNac predictions. Using the RefSeq database, splicing predictions are performed using the Link software in Alamut HC. Functional prediction programs SIFT and PolyPhen2 are then used. 随后，通过Alamut、PubMed、ScienceDirect和BioMed Central，利用Google搜索，进行手工文献检索来确定是否进一步存在有关特定变体的支持数据。将所有相关结果输入到IQDB数据库中。Subsequently, manual literature searches were performed to determine whether further supporting data existed for specific variants using Google searches through Alamut, PubMed, ScienceDirect, and BioMed Central. All relevant results were entered into the IQDB database. 根据ACMG指南进行最终变体分选，结果输入到IQDB数据库中。分选被评分为良性、可能良性、VUS、可能致病性、致病性。然后将此结果传送给指导者进行二次审阅和报告撰写。The final variant sorting was performed according to the ACMG guidelines and the results were entered into the IQDB database. The sorting was scored as benign, likely benign, VUS, likely pathogenic, and pathogenic. The results were then sent to the instructor for secondary review and report writing. 结果result 测定法开发Assay development 在测定法开发的过程中，使用自带的MiSeq Reporter软件的MiSeq测序系统未能鉴定测试的Coriell样品中2种致病性BRCA1变体。两种变体均为>9bp的缺失：40bp缺失c.1175_1214del40和10bp缺失c.3481_3491del10。它们是这些样品中仅有的两种>9bp的缺失。然而，上述QSAP工作流程可以用于如上所述的比对和等位基因指配(QSAP)。图3显示了含有40bp缺失的样品的比对呈现。这种有害突变被PGM/Torrent Suite软件鉴定，但未被MiSeq/MiSeq Reporter软件鉴定出来。然而，当使用配备QSAP软件的MiSeq时，该缺失被清楚地鉴定出来(图3)。对于10bp缺失有同样的发现：MiSeq/MiSeq报告程序始终遗漏了该缺失，而PGM/Torrent Suite和MiSeq/QSAP总是鉴定出了该缺失(数据未显示)。MiSeq/QSAP组合和PGM/Torrent Suite组合对于验证集合中的BRCA1和BRCA2变体都显示出100％灵敏度。使用两个平台进行了技术验证。During assay development, the MiSeq sequencing system using the native MiSeq Reporter software failed to identify 2 pathogenic BRCA1 variants in the Coriell samples tested. Both variants were deletions >9 bp: a 40 bp deletion c.1175_1214del40 and a 10 bp deletion c.3481_3491del10. They were the only two deletions >9 bp in these samples. However, the QSAP workflow described above can be used for alignment and allele assignment (QSAP) as described above. Figure 3 shows the alignment presentation of a sample containing a 40 bp deletion. This deleterious mutation was identified by the PGM/Torrent Suite software but not by the MiSeq/MiSeq Reporter software. However, when using the MiSeq with QSAP software, the deletion was clearly identified (Figure 3). The same findings were found for the 10 bp deletion: the deletion was consistently missed by the MiSeq/MiSeq reporter, whereas it was consistently identified by the PGM/Torrent Suite and MiSeq/QSAP (data not shown). Both the MiSeq/QSAP combination and the PGM/Torrent Suite combination showed 100% sensitivity for both BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants in the validation set. Technical validation was performed using both platforms. 由于NGS测序错误可能由PCR或克隆性扩增错误引起，因此开发了QC度量来克服这些潜在问题，QC度量利用了这一事实：随机剪切产生具有不同的起始和终止位置的文库克隆。因此，生物信息学分析能够区分来自相同与不同的文库克隆的读段。这使我们能够开发一个最小QC度量，根据该度量，每个被靶向的碱基必须有来自至少20个独特克隆的高质量序列。然而，通常实现了335个独特读段的“平均读取深度”。Since NGS sequencing errors can be caused by PCR or clonal amplification errors, QC metrics were developed to overcome these potential problems, which exploit the fact that random shearing produces library clones with different start and stop positions. Therefore, bioinformatics analysis is able to distinguish reads from the same versus different library clones. This allowed us to develop a minimum QC metric according to which each targeted base must have high-quality sequences from at least 20 unique clones. However, an 'average read depth' of 335 unique reads was typically achieved. 技术验证：测定内精度Technical Validation: Intra-Assay Precision 通过分析从三个血液样品中提取的DNA，在每个平台上进行五次重复，证明了测定内精度。每个样品至少有一个BRCA1或BRCA2变体。在用MiSeq/QSAP组合进行检测时，在每个样品中鉴定出所有变体在五次重复中均100％一致。然而，PGM/Torrent Suite平台显示出低水平的随机测序错误。在PGM仪上的总测定内一致性(overall intra-assayconcordance)仅为96.2％。在一个样品中，在第五个重复中检测到一个单碱基插入，而在其他重复中未检测到该单碱基插入。另外，在第四个重复中未鉴定出一个良性变体。在另一个样品中，第五个重复包含4个在任何其他重复中不存在的SNP，并且在重复3中判读出的一个SNP未在别处被判读。Intra-assay accuracy was demonstrated by analyzing DNA extracted from three blood samples, with five replicates on each platform. Each sample had at least one BRCA1 or BRCA2 variant. When tested with the MiSeq/QSAP combination, all variants identified in each sample were 100% consistent in five replicates. However, the PGM/Torrent Suite platform showed a low level of random sequencing errors. The overall intra-assay consistency on the PGM instrument was only 96.2%. In one sample, a single-base insertion was detected in the fifth replicate, which was not detected in other replicates. In addition, a benign variant was not identified in the fourth replicate. In another sample, the fifth replicate contained 4 SNPs that were not present in any other replicate, and a SNP read in replicate 3 was not read elsewhere. 将MiSeq/QSAP等位基因判读与PGM/Torrent Suite判读进行比较，有几处不一致。一个样品显示在2个SNP位点处在两个平台之间不一致：PGM/Torrent Suite的一个重复在第13号染色体上的位置32906554处判读出一个A插入，但在PGM/Torrent Suite的其他重复以及在MiSeq/QSAP平台上都未鉴定出该A插入。PGM/Torrent Suite的一个重复中也未检测到17号染色体上的位置41245466处的rs1799949。结果，对于这个样品，在2个平台之间的样品内一致性为88％。第二个样品的所有变体判读在两个平台是一致的，故平台之间的一致性为100％。第三个样品由于PGM/Torrent Suite上的测序错误(每个SNP的5个重复中有1个)，11个SNP有5个不一致，一致率仅为64％。Comparing the MiSeq/QSAP allele calls with the PGM/Torrent Suite calls, there were several inconsistencies. One sample showed inconsistency between the two platforms at 2 SNP sites: one replicate of the PGM/Torrent Suite called an A insertion at position 32906554 on chromosome 13, but the A insertion was not identified in other replicates of the PGM/Torrent Suite nor on the MiSeq/QSAP platform. rs1799949 at position 41245466 on chromosome 17 was also not detected in one replicate of the PGM/Torrent Suite. As a result, for this sample, the intra-sample consistency between the two platforms was 88%. All variant calls for the second sample were consistent on both platforms, so the consistency between the platforms was 100%. The third sample had 5 inconsistencies in 11 SNPs due to sequencing errors on the PGM/Torrent Suite (1 in 5 replicates of each SNP), with a consistency rate of only 64%. 技术验证：测定间精度Technical Validation: Inter-Assay Precision 对于来自67个假定未受影响的个体的残留实验室样品的DNA、以及来自Coriell的27个DNA标本，以三个重复的实验设置进行了分析。每次运行中还纳入了两个阴性对照(质量控制空白[QCB])和无模板对照[NTC])。在MiSeq/QSAP和PGM/Torrent Suite平台上均检出了为每次运行准备的文库。PGM和MiSeq仪的3次重复运行中检测到的所有变体均使用IGV(版本2.3.14)通过人工审阅加以验证。在2次以上重复运行中不合格的样品被排除在测定间变异性评估之外。DNA from residual laboratory samples of 67 presumed unaffected individuals and 27 DNA specimens from Coriell were analyzed in triplicate experimental settings. Two negative controls (quality control blanks [QCB]) and no-template controls [NTC] were also included in each run. Libraries prepared for each run were called on both the MiSeq/QSAP and PGM/Torrent Suite platforms. All variants detected in triplicate runs on the PGM and MiSeq instruments were validated by manual review using IGV (version 2.3.14). Samples that failed in more than two replicate runs were excluded from the interassay variability assessment. 在PGM/Torrent Suite平台上检测到的经验证变体较MiSeq/QSAP平台为少，原因是PGM/Torrent Suite平台上的测定不合格率更高(表2)。PGM/Torrent Suite的测定间精度为96.7％，MiSeq/QSAP的测定间精度为96.4％(表2)。值得注意的是，在MiSeq/QSAP平台上的3次重复中检测到的差异性判读代表假阳性结果；它们大多来自一个重复的一个样品，可能提示样品制备或孔污染的问题。Fewer validated variants were detected on the PGM/Torrent Suite platform than on the MiSeq/QSAP platform due to a higher assay failure rate on the PGM/Torrent Suite platform (Table 2). The inter-assay accuracy was 96.7% for the PGM/Torrent Suite and 96.4% for the MiSeq/QSAP (Table 2). Of note, the differential calls detected in the three replicates on the MiSeq/QSAP platform represent false-positive results; most of them were from one sample in one replicate, which may indicate problems with sample preparation or well contamination. 表2.相对于Sanger的变体判读的测定间一致性Table 2. Inter-assay agreement of variant calls relative to Sanger 所分析的样品包括27个具有已知有害突变的对照DNA样品和67个来自志愿者的样品，共有352个良性变体。The samples analyzed included 27 control DNA samples with known harmful mutations and 67 samples from volunteers, for a total of 352 benign variants. 不合格样品Unqualified samples 样品不合格定义为在任何外显子上均未达到>40x的平均覆盖深度。对于MiSeq仪，在重复1和2中没有不合格，而在重复3中有8个样品不合格。因此，对于重复3的总不合格率为8.5％(8/94)，或总体上为2.8％(8/282)。对于PGM，重复1的不合格率为9.6％(9/94)，重复2的不合格率为13.8％(13/94)，重复3的不合格率为26.6％(25/94)；总不合格率为16.7％(47/282)。具有低覆盖度的所有不合格样品都在来自给予同意的受试者的对照样品中，这可能反映出Coriell DNA样品中的DNA质量更高。Sample failure was defined as not achieving an average depth of coverage >40x on any exon. For the MiSeq instrument, there were no failures in replicates 1 and 2, while 8 samples failed in replicate 3. Therefore, the total failure rate for replicate 3 was 8.5% (8/94), or 2.8% (8/282) overall. For PGM, the failure rate was 9.6% (9/94) for replicate 1, 13.8% (13/94) for replicate 2, and 26.6% (25/94) for replicate 3; the total failure rate was 16.7% (47/282). All failed samples with low coverage were in control samples from consenting subjects, which may reflect the higher DNA quality in the Coriell DNA samples. 在MiSeq/QSAP平台上的重复3中以及在PGM/Torrent Suite平台上的所有3次重复运行中，四个样品不合格。这个发现提示了样品质量问题，不过相同的样品在MiSeq/QSAP平台上在重复1和2中的所有区域中均被成功测序。所有在MiSeq/QSAP平台上不合格的样品均来自重复3。重复3在PGM/Torrent Suite平台上的不合格率也是最高的。这指向了该重复的样品制备问题，因为一直到杂交捕获步骤完成为止，两个平台的样品文库都是一起制备的。Four samples failed in replicate 3 on the MiSeq/QSAP platform and in all three replicate runs on the PGM/Torrent Suite platform. This finding suggests a sample quality issue, although the same samples were successfully sequenced in all regions on the MiSeq/QSAP platform in replicates 1 and 2. All samples that failed on the MiSeq/QSAP platform were from replicate 3. Replicate 3 also had the highest failure rate on the PGM/Torrent Suite platform. This points to a sample preparation issue for this replicate, as sample libraries for both platforms were prepared together until the hybridization capture step was completed. 平台间一致性Consistency between platforms 由于PGM运行中的不合格多于MiSeq运行中的不合格，所以仅验证了一部分来自MiSeq/QSAP平台的差异性变体判读，以及来自PGM/Torrent Suite平台的判读。来自MiSeq/QSAP的所有8个差异性变体判读都来自重复2。这8个中的4个在PGM/Torrent Suite平台上的重复2中同样被观察到。另外，8个变体判读中的5个是在一个样品中观察到的。Since there were more failures in the PGM run than in the MiSeq run, only a subset of differential variant calls from the MiSeq/QSAP platform and the calls from the PGM/Torrent Suite platform were validated. All 8 differential variant calls from MiSeq/QSAP were from replicate 2. 4 of these 8 were also observed in replicate 2 on the PGM/Torrent Suite platform. In addition, 5 of the 8 variant calls were observed in one sample. 分析灵敏度：检测限Analytical sensitivity: detection limit 空白限(LOB)Limit of Blank (LOB) 在整个测定过程中都带上了加有条形码的NTC和QCB样品，这些样品与所有其他样品的处理相同。将映射到hg19基因组序列的读段数与每样品的平均比对读段数进行比较。对于MiSeq/QSAP平台，在重复1中，NTC或QCB没有映射到人类基因组的读段。在重复2中，QC空白没有读段，但NTC有1,486个读段。总计为板上读段平均数的1.1％，远低于等位基因判读的20％阈值。在重复3中，NTC有46个读段，占板1中的读段平均数的0.044％。Barcoded NTC and QCB samples were carried throughout the assay and were processed identically to all other samples. The number of reads that mapped to the hg19 genome sequence was compared to the average number of aligned reads per sample. For the MiSeq/QSAP platform, in replicate 1, there were no reads from either NTC or QCB that mapped to the human genome. In replicate 2, the QC blank had no reads, but the NTC had 1,486 reads. This totaled to 1.1% of the average number of reads on the plate, well below the 20% threshold for allele calls. In replicate 3, the NTC had 46 reads, which is 0.044% of the average number of reads in plate 1. 对于PGM/Torrent Suite平台，NTC和QCB在板1中显示出0.255％和0.029％的比对读段。在板2中，NTC有平均比对读段的9.2％，而QC空白为零。第三重复板的值NTC和QCB分别为0.268％和0.063％。NTC和QCB在两个平台上都显示出可接受的低比对读段总数。比对读段或者是不可检出，或者是远低于我们对于变体判读的20％的截止阈值。For the PGM/Torrent Suite platform, NTC and QCB showed 0.255% and 0.029% of aligned reads in plate 1. In plate 2, NTC had an average of 9.2% of aligned reads, while the QC blank was zero. The values for the third replicate plate were 0.268% and 0.063% for NTC and QCB, respectively. NTC and QCB showed acceptably low total numbers of aligned reads on both platforms. Aligned reads were either not detectable or well below our cutoff threshold of 20% for variant calls. 检测限(LOD)Limit of Detection (LOD) LOD被定义为在外显子区上的平均读取深度保持在每碱基≥40个读段时的最低DNA浓度(ng/μL)。为了确定LOD，可以采用以下实验。连续稀释两个Coriell DNA样品GM14094和GM14096、以及从没有致病性BRCA的67名对照个体中选择的一个随机DNA样品。在MiSeq/QSAP平台上，对照DNA未能达到所需的5ng/μL的平均读取/覆盖深度，表明MiSeq/QSAP平台的最小样品输入(LOD)必须大于5ng/μL(所有剪切反应在80μL体积中进行)。另外，对于高于这个下限的3个样品，所有变体在每个浓度下被一致地判读(即，100％一致)。在PGM/Torrent Suite平台上，样品在5ng/μL时不合格，表明最小样品输入也必须大于5ng/μL(400ng DNA)。在两个平台上，在所有浓度下都成功检出40bp和11bp的缺失突变。然而，对于非Coriell对照样品只有99.96％的判读变体是一致的。在15ng/μL时，使用PGM/TorrentSuite平台在对照DNA中判读出一个插入，该插入在任何其他浓度下均不存在，可能是由于测序错误所致。LOD is defined as the lowest DNA concentration (ng/μL) at which the average read depth on the exon region remains ≥40 reads per base. To determine LOD, the following experiment can be used. Serial dilutions of two Coriell DNA samples GM14094 and GM14096, and a random DNA sample selected from 67 control individuals without pathogenic BRCA. On the MiSeq/QSAP platform, the control DNA failed to reach the required average read/coverage depth of 5ng/μL, indicating that the minimum sample input (LOD) of the MiSeq/QSAP platform must be greater than 5ng/μL (all shearing reactions were performed in 80μL volume). In addition, for the three samples above this lower limit, all variants were consistently read at each concentration (i.e., 100% consistent). On the PGM/Torrent Suite platform, the sample failed at 5ng/μL, indicating that the minimum sample input must also be greater than 5ng/μL (400ng DNA). On both platforms, 40bp and 11bp deletion mutations were successfully detected at all concentrations. However, only 99.96% of the called variants were consistent for the non-Coriell control sample. At 15 ng/μL, one insertion was called in the control DNA using the PGM/TorrentSuite platform that was not present at any other concentration, likely due to a sequencing error. 准确度Accuracy 在MiSeq/QSAP和PGM/Torrent Suite平台上，从Coriell获得的27个DNA样品包括在本验证研究中，分3次独立运行。在两个平台的所有三次验证运行中均成功地检出了样品中所有先前已知的BRCA1和BRCA2变体(即，癌症相关突变的准确度达100％)。另外，确定了在67个对照样品中检测到的352个良性序列变化的变体判读的总准确度。MiSeq/QSAP平台上只有一个遗漏的判读，系由于低读取深度(覆盖度)所致。此错误可以通过调整我们的QC度量中的最小深度要求来避免，因为这是在实施测定前进行的。PGM/Torrent Suite平台产生了两个假阳性判读、一个测序错误、和37个遗漏的变体判读，大多仅在三次验证运行中的一次观察到。然而，有4个变体未被Ion Reporter判读，这些变体通过人工审阅借助比对软件检出。总的来说，MiSeq/QSAP平台的错误率为<0.1％(1/1056)，PGM/Torrent Suite平台的错误率为3.7％(39/1056)。使用调整的QC参数，MiSeq/QSAP组合具有100％的灵敏度和几乎100％的特异性。通过人工审阅所有阳性样品，MiSeq/QSAP组合也实现了100％的特异性。Twenty-seven DNA samples obtained from Coriell were included in this validation study and run three independent times on the MiSeq/QSAP and PGM/Torrent Suite platforms. All previously known BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants in the samples were successfully called in all three validation runs for both platforms (i.e., 100% accuracy for cancer-associated mutations). In addition, the overall accuracy of variant calls for 352 benign sequence changes detected in 67 control samples was determined. There was only one missed call on the MiSeq/QSAP platform due to low read depth (coverage). This error can be avoided by adjusting the minimum depth requirement in our QC metrics, as this is performed before the assay is implemented. The PGM/Torrent Suite platform produced two false positive calls, one sequencing error, and 37 missed variant calls, most of which were observed in only one of the three validation runs. However, there were four variants that were not called by Ion Reporter, which were detected by manual review with the help of alignment software. Overall, the error rate for the MiSeq/QSAP platform was <0.1% (1/1056), and the error rate for the PGM/Torrent Suite platform was 3.7% (39/1056). Using adjusted QC parameters, the MiSeq/QSAP combination had 100% sensitivity and almost 100% specificity. By manually reviewing all positive samples, the MiSeq/QSAP combination also achieved 100% specificity. 前521个临床样品First 521 clinical samples 为了初始临床试验发布，使用MiSeq/QSAP平台和PGM/Torrent Suite平台变体判读软件进行了突变分析。对于在2个平台上有差异结果的样品，或者是人工审阅病例来确定差异的原因，或重新测试样品以确认。前521个报告病例中有35个差异，其中34个是由于PGM/Torrent Suite错误所致。单个MiSeq/QSAP平台测序的唯一一个错误是一个良性多态性的假阴性结果。比对的人工审阅揭示，这是由于链偏倚(19％变体)加上低覆盖度所致。可以随后调整QC参数，以利用随机剪切允许过滤重复读段这一事实。QC接受度量(QCacceptance metric)要求每个测定中的每个碱基要从至少20个独立读段分析。由此，平均深度通常在从几百到几千的范围。使用经过调整的QC参数，MiSeq/QSAP组合具有100％的灵敏度和100％的特异性。对于所有阳性病例，人工审查比对，作为进一步的质量度量。For initial clinical trial release, mutation analysis was performed using the MiSeq/QSAP platform and the PGM/Torrent Suite platform variant calling software. For samples with discrepant results on the 2 platforms, either the case was manually reviewed to determine the cause of the discrepancy or the sample was retested for confirmation. There were 35 discrepancies in the first 521 reported cases, 34 of which were due to PGM/Torrent Suite errors. The only error in sequencing on a single MiSeq/QSAP platform was a false negative result for a benign polymorphism. Manual review of the alignment revealed that this was due to strand bias (19% variants) coupled with low coverage. The QC parameters can then be adjusted to take advantage of the fact that random shearing allows filtering of duplicate reads. The QC acceptance metric requires that each base in each assay be analyzed from at least 20 independent reads. As a result, the average depth typically ranges from a few hundred to a few thousand. Using the adjusted QC parameters, the MiSeq/QSAP combination has 100% sensitivity and 100% specificity. For all positive cases, the alignments were manually reviewed as a further quality measure. 在对QC度量进行这些调整后，MiSeq/QSAP平台在连续500多次分析中没有产生更多的错误。然而，PGM/Torrent Suite组合产生了2个针对致病性BRCA1变体的假阴性结果：一个10碱基对插入和一个64p缺失。这两种致病性变体均被MiSeq/QSAP平台检出。图4显示了针对该64bp缺失的QSAP比对。在此观察之后，可以停止使用PGM/Torrent Suite平台。在测试期间，为了确定我们的新质量度量能保证鉴定出所有变体，所有MiSeq/QSAP分析都重复进行。重复实验将确保由于链偏倚、低覆盖度或文库创建引起的任何假阳性或假阴性都被检出。在1006次连续重复的MiSeq/QSAP运行中检出了5000个以上的变体，在重复分析之间没有差异性结果(数据未显示)。因此，不需要重复运行。After making these adjustments to the QC metrics, the MiSeq/QSAP platform produced no more errors in more than 500 consecutive analyses. However, the PGM/Torrent Suite combination produced 2 false negative results for pathogenic BRCA1 variants: a 10 base pair insertion and a 64p deletion. Both pathogenic variants were called by the MiSeq/QSAP platform. Figure 4 shows the QSAP alignment for the 64bp deletion. After this observation, the PGM/Torrent Suite platform could be discontinued. During testing, all MiSeq/QSAP analyses were repeated to determine that our new quality metrics would ensure that all variants were identified. Repeating the experiment will ensure that any false positives or false negatives caused by strand bias, low coverage, or library creation are called. More than 5000 variants were called in 1006 consecutive replicate MiSeq/QSAP runs, with no discrepant results between replicate analyses (data not shown). Therefore, repeat runs were not required. NGS平台相比于标准Sanger测序的一个优势是它们能够确定2个SNP在取向上是顺式还是反式。如果两个变体被捕获在单个读段中(在这种情况下少于250个碱基)，则表明它们为顺式。如果它们在分别的读段中被捕获，则表明它们为反式。图5显示了一名具有处于顺式的两个点突变的个体。在前521个临床样品中已经见到两名这样的连锁变体。另外，在例行操作中，MiSeq/QSAP平台比PGM/Torrent Suite平台稳健得多。因此，可以停止PGM/Torrent Suite平台试验，并且可以对每个病例重复执行MiSeq/QSAP运行，以确定是否存在由于文库形成所致的任何潜在的假阳性或假阴性问题。An advantage of NGS platforms over standard Sanger sequencing is that they can determine whether 2 SNPs are cis or trans in orientation. If two variants are captured in a single read (less than 250 bases in this case), it is indicated that they are cis. If they are captured in separate reads, it is indicated that they are trans. Fig. 5 shows an individual with two point mutations in cis. Two such linkage variants have been seen in the first 521 clinical samples. In addition, in routine operation, the MiSeq/QSAP platform is much more robust than the PGM/Torrent Suite platform. Therefore, the PGM/Torrent Suite platform test can be stopped, and the MiSeq/QSAP run can be repeated for each case to determine whether there is any potential false positive or false negative problem due to library formation. 在初始的100个重复样品中注意到重复的MiSeq运行之间有一个差异。这是一个良性多态性，它在一次运行中被检出，但在第二次运行中未检出。对测序数据的检查显示，在第二次测序运行中存在显著的链偏倚，导致针对该变体的19％变体频率。此时我们的QC截止值为20％。为了防止此错误的再次发生，修改了变体判读的QC度量。DNA的随机片段化导致每个单独的DNA片段具有唯一的起始和终止核苷酸。这允许生物信息学唯一地识别被测序的克隆。将QC度量调整为要求来自至少20个不同克隆的每个编码外显子的每个碱基、以及所述外显子中的50个碱基对都被测序。这可消除由于测序偏倚所致的错误，因为来自过度呈现(overrepresented)的克隆的读段会被忽略，并且通过要求测序克隆的最小数量，杂合子具有接近50％的呈现。在作出这种调整之后，在连续1006次以上的分析中没有发现差异。One discrepancy between the replicate MiSeq runs was noted in the initial 100 replicate samples. This was a benign polymorphism that was detected in one run but not in the second run. Inspection of the sequencing data revealed that there was significant strand bias in the second sequencing run, resulting in a 19% variant frequency for this variant. Our QC cutoff at this time was 20%. To prevent this error from reoccurring, the QC metrics for variant calling were modified. Random fragmentation of DNA results in each individual DNA fragment having unique start and end nucleotides. This allows bioinformatics to uniquely identify the clone being sequenced. The QC metrics were adjusted to require that every base of each coding exon from at least 20 different clones, as well as 50 base pairs within the exon, be sequenced. This eliminates errors due to sequencing bias because reads from overrepresented clones are ignored, and by requiring a minimum number of clones to be sequenced, heterozygotes have a representation close to 50%. After making this adjustment, no differences were found in more than 1006 consecutive analyses. 数据表明，结合自带MiSeq Reporter软件的Illumina MiSeq测序仪和结合自带Torrent Suite软件的Life Technologies PGM两者都不适合于BRCA1和BRCA2的临床实验室测序。MiSeq系统不能检测到大于9bp的插入和缺失，使得其对于BRCA检测而言不可接受，因为许多已被描述的有害突变在该大小范围内。类似地，带有Torrent Suite软件的PGM不能检测到10个碱基对的插入和64bp的缺失，使该平台失去临床BRCA测试的资格。然而，通过将随机剪切与诱饵小区捕获、带有QSAP比对和等位基因判读软件的生物信息学的MiSeq平台、以及我们的质量度量相结合，本公开的测定法在我们的技术验证系列中对于BRCA1和BRCA2序列变异具有100％的灵敏度和特异性。现实世界的表现可能达不到这样的精度水平。The data indicate that both the Illumina MiSeq sequencer in combination with the built-in MiSeq Reporter software and the Life Technologies PGM in combination with the built-in Torrent Suite software are not suitable for clinical laboratory sequencing of BRCA1 and BRCA2. The MiSeq system cannot detect insertions and deletions larger than 9 bp, making it unacceptable for BRCA testing, as many of the deleterious mutations that have been described are in this size range. Similarly, the PGM with Torrent Suite software cannot detect insertions of 10 base pairs and deletions of 64 bp, disqualifying the platform for clinical BRCA testing. However, by combining random shearing with bait cell capture, the MiSeq platform with bioinformatics of QSAP alignment and allele calling software, and our quality metrics, the assays disclosed herein have 100% sensitivity and specificity for BRCA1 and BRCA2 sequence variants in our technical validation series. Real-world performance may not reach this level of accuracy. 使用NGS结合诱饵小区外显子捕获提供了几个优势。首先，NGS之前的诱饵小区外显子捕获降低了由于等位基因脱扣引起的假阴性结果的可能性，等位基因脱扣可能在扩增或测序引物序列中存在多态性时在基于PCR的方法中发生。其次，使用5x冗余小区排布(tiling)，每个外显子被多个诱饵捕获，进一步降低了由于个体序列变异引起的假阴性结果的机会。诱饵小区捕获相对于基于PCR的靶富集方法的第三个优点是避免由于PCR或文库形成中的扩增子偏倚引起的假阳性结果。如果在早期PCR或文库扩增循环中发生碱基取代错误，则错误会被扩散(propagate)，在测序之前并产生混合群体(mixed population)。如果在单个扩增子中发生错误，并且扩增子被优先测序，可能导致假阳性结果。利用诱饵小区捕获方法，在诱饵小区捕获之前将基因组DNA随机剪切成大约250bp的片段。文库形成发生在捕获之后。因此，每个片段具有不同的5’和3’末端，并且序列比对软件可以检测2个读段是否从同一个片段生成。可以将过滤器设置为仅接受来自独特片段的读段，从而消除由于早期PCR或文库扩增错误所致的测序错误的可能性。所选择的质量控制度量要求来自至少20个不同克隆的读段，从而最大限度地降低NGS中假阳性测序的风险。Using NGS in conjunction with bait cell exon capture provides several advantages. First, bait cell exon capture prior to NGS reduces the likelihood of false-negative results due to allele dropout, which can occur in PCR-based methods when polymorphisms are present in the amplification or sequencing primer sequence. Second, using 5x redundant cell tiling, each exon is captured by multiple baits, further reducing the chance of false-negative results due to individual sequence variation. The third advantage of bait cell capture over PCR-based target enrichment methods is the avoidance of false-positive results due to amplicon bias in PCR or library formation. If base substitution errors occur in early PCR or library amplification cycles, the errors will be propagated, before sequencing, and a mixed population will be produced. If an error occurs in a single amplicon, and the amplicon is preferentially sequenced, false-positive results may result. Using the bait cell capture method, genomic DNA is randomly sheared into fragments of approximately 250 bp before bait cell capture. Library formation occurs after capture. Therefore, each fragment has different 5' and 3' ends, and sequence alignment software can detect whether 2 reads are generated from the same fragment. Filters can be set to accept only reads from unique fragments, eliminating the possibility of sequencing errors due to early PCR or library amplification errors. The selected quality control metric requires reads from at least 20 different clones, minimizing the risk of false positive sequencing in NGS. 相对于Sanger测序，NGS还具有检测大约在250bp内的SNP相位(即剪切后的基因组DNA片段的长度)的优点。由于这项技术对单个分子进行测序，所以处于顺式取向的2个SNP将一起出现在同一个读段中；如果取向为反式，则2个SNP将在分开的读段中出现。Sanger测序在不借助家系研究的情况下无法区分顺式和反式取向。Compared with Sanger sequencing, NGS also has the advantage of detecting SNP phase (i.e., the length of the genomic DNA fragment after shearing) within about 250bp. Since this technology sequences a single molecule, two SNPs in cis orientation will appear together in the same read; if the orientation is trans, the two SNPs will appear in separate reads. Sanger sequencing cannot distinguish between cis and trans orientations without the help of family studies. 总之，本文描述了适合于临床实验室的用于检测BRCA1和BRCA2变体的快速高通量测序测定法的开发和验证。利用MiSeq/QSAP组合重复测试了1006份初始临床样品，结果显示没有差异性变体判读。In summary, this article describes the development and validation of a rapid high-throughput sequencing assay for detecting BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is suitable for clinical laboratories. 1006 initial clinical samples were tested in duplicate using the MiSeq/QSAP combination and the results showed no differential variant calls. 虽然本说明书包含许多具体的实施细节，但是这些细节不应被解释为对任何发明的范围或所要求保护的范围的限制，而是对特定发明的具体实施方式特有的特征的描述。在单独实施方式的上下文中，在本说明书中描述的某些特征也可以在单个实施方式中组合实现。相反，在单个实施方式的上下文中描述的各种特征也可以分开地或以任何适合的子组合在多个实施方式中实现。而且，虽然上文可以将特征描述为以某些组合的方式起作用，并且甚至最初因此而要求保护，但要求保护的组合的一个或多个特征在某些情况下可以从组合中去除，并且所要求保护的组合可以涉及子组合或子组合的变化。Although this specification contains many specific implementation details, these details should not be interpreted as limitations on the scope of any invention or the scope of the claimed protection, but rather as descriptions of features that are peculiar to a specific embodiment of a particular invention. In the context of a separate embodiment, certain features described in this specification may also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely, the various features described in the context of a single embodiment may also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable sub-combination. Moreover, although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed for this reason, one or more features of the claimed combination may be removed from the combination in some cases, and the claimed combination may involve a sub-combination or a variation of the sub-combination. 类似地，尽管在附图和表中以特定顺序描绘了操作，但是这不应被理解为要求以所示的特定顺序或按先后顺序执行这样的操作，或执行所有展示的操作以实现期望的结果。在某些情况下，多任务处理和并行处理可能是有利的。此外，上述实施方式中的各种系统组件的分开不应被理解为在所有实施方式中均要求这样的分开，并且应当理解，所描述的程序组件和系统通常可以集成在单个软件产品中或包装在多个软件产品中。Similarly, although operations are depicted in a particular order in the drawings and tables, this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in a sequential order, or that all of the operations shown be performed to achieve the desired result. In some cases, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. In addition, the separation of various system components in the above-described embodiments should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments, and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated into a single software product or packaged in multiple software products. 因此，已经描述了本发明的特定实施方式。其他实施方式在以下的权利要求书的范围之内。在一些情况下，可以按照不同的顺序进行在权利要求中叙述的活动并且仍然实现期望的结果。另外，附图中所描绘的过程不一定需要所示的特定顺序或先后顺序来获得期望的结果。在某些实施方式中，多任务处理和并行处理可能是有利的。Thus, specific embodiments of the invention have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases, the activities recited in the claims may be performed in a different order and still achieve the desired results. Additionally, the processes depicted in the accompanying drawings do not necessarily require the particular order or sequential order shown to achieve the desired results. In certain embodiments, multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

### Claims

Claims (26) Translated from Chinese 1.一种通过一个或多个电子处理器处理原始测序数据的方法，其中所述方法包括：1. A method for processing raw sequencing data by one or more electronic processors, wherein the method comprises: (a) 从核酸测序仪获得原始测序数据，其中所述原始测序数据是从核酸样品产生的，其中使用一个或多个生物素化的RNA诱饵对所述核酸样品中的一个或多个感兴趣的基因进行外显子捕获；(a) obtaining raw sequencing data from a nucleic acid sequencer, wherein the raw sequencing data is generated from a nucleic acid sample, wherein exon capture is performed on one or more genes of interest in the nucleic acid sample using one or more biotinylated RNA baits; (b) 从原始测序数据中去除未通过质量过滤器的低质量读段；(b) removing low-quality reads that failed the quality filter from the raw sequencing data; (c) 从经过滤的原始测序数据中修剪掉衔接子和分子鉴别序列；(c) trimming away adapters and molecular identification sequences from the filtered raw sequencing data; (d) 将经过滤的原始测序数据映射到基因组参考序列以生成映射的读段；(d) mapping the filtered raw sequencing data to a genome reference sequence to generate mapped reads; (e) 对映射的读段进行排序和索引；(e) sorting and indexing the mapped reads; (f) 将所述读段添加到数据文件以生成经处理的序列文件；(f) adding the reads to a data file to generate a processed sequence file; (g) 创建重新比对目标；(g) creating re-alignment targets; (h) 进行经处理的序列文件的局部重新比对以生成重新比对的序列文件；(h) performing local realignment of the processed sequence files to generate realigned sequence files; (i) 从重新比对的序列文件中去除重复读段；(i) removing duplicate reads from the realigned sequence files; (j) 分析感兴趣的编码区；和(j) analyzing the coding region of interest; and (k) 基于步骤(j)中的分析，生成鉴定变体是否存在的报告，(k) generating a report identifying the presence or absence of the variant based on the analysis in step (j), 其中使用改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对工具来进行步骤(g)和(h)，所述改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对工具限于对所述一个或多个基因内的感兴趣核酸区域进行重新比对，其中所述感兴趣核酸区域由所述一个或多个基因的编码外显子+/-50个碱基组成，所述基因选自BRCA1或BRCA2，其中所述局部重新比对不包括碱基质量分数重新校准，其中使用改良的基因组分析工具包变体判读器进行变体判读，其中将读段映射到基因组参考序列是用Burrows Wheeler Aligner进行的，wherein steps (g) and (h) are performed using a modified Smith-Waterman local realignment tool, the modified Smith-Waterman local realignment tool being limited to realignment of a nucleic acid region of interest within the one or more genes, wherein the nucleic acid region of interest consists of +/- 50 bases of coding exons of the one or more genes, the genes being selected from BRCA1 or BRCA2 , wherein the local realignment does not include base quality score recalibration, wherein variant calling is performed using a modified Genome Analysis Toolkit variant caller, wherein mapping of reads to a genomic reference sequence is performed using a Burrows Wheeler Aligner, 其中所述通过一个或多个电子处理器处理原始测序数据的方法用于非诊断目的。The method of processing raw sequencing data by one or more electronic processors is used for non-diagnostic purposes. 2.根据权利要求1所述的方法，其中所述分析感兴趣的编码区包括判读感兴趣区域中的每个位置处的变体。2. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing the coding region of interest comprises calling variants at each position in the region of interest. 3.根据权利要求1所述的方法，所述将读段映射到基因组参考序列不包括软剪切。3. The method of claim 1, wherein mapping the reads to a genomic reference sequence does not include soft clipping. 4.根据权利要求1所述的方法，其中所述基因组参考序列是GRCh37.1人类基因组参考序列。4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the genomic reference sequence is the GRCh37.1 human genome reference sequence. 5.根据权利要求1所述的方法，其中从核酸测序仪获得原始测序数据的方法包括使用乳液PCR、滚环扩增或固相扩增的步骤。5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method of obtaining raw sequencing data from a nucleic acid sequencer comprises the steps of using emulsion PCR, rolling circle amplification or solid phase amplification. 6.根据权利要求5所述的方法，其中所述固相扩增是克隆桥扩增。The method according to claim 5 , wherein the solid phase amplification is clonal bridge amplification. 7.根据权利要求1所述的方法，其中所述核酸是从生物样品中提取的。7. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is extracted from a biological sample. 8.根据权利要求7所述的方法，其中所述生物样品是流体或组织样品。8. The method of claim 7, wherein the biological sample is a fluid or tissue sample. 9.根据权利要求7所述的方法，其中所述生物样品是血液样品。9. The method of claim 7, wherein the biological sample is a blood sample. 10.根据权利要求1所述的方法，其中所述核酸是基因组DNA。10. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is genomic DNA. 11.根据权利要求1所述的方法，其中所述核酸是从mRNA反转录的cDNA。11. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is cDNA reverse transcribed from mRNA. 12.根据权利要求1所述的方法，所述方法包括在测序前由核酸测序仪制备核酸，其中通过实施以下步骤制备所述核酸：12. The method according to claim 1, comprising preparing nucleic acid by a nucleic acid sequencer before sequencing, wherein the nucleic acid is prepared by performing the following steps: (a) 剪切核酸样品；(a) shearing nucleic acid samples; (b) 浓缩核酸样品；(b) concentrating nucleic acid samples; (c)对剪切的核酸样品中的核酸分子进行大小选择；(c) performing size selection on nucleic acid molecules in the sheared nucleic acid sample; (d) 使用DNA聚合酶修复样品中核酸分子的末端；(d) repairing the ends of nucleic acid molecules in the sample using a DNA polymerase; (e) 使核酸分子附接一个或多个衔接子序列；(e) attaching the nucleic acid molecule to one or more adapter sequences; (f) 扩增核酸以增加具有附接的衔接子序列的核酸的比例；(f) amplifying the nucleic acid to increase the proportion of nucleic acid having an attached adaptor sequence; (g) 富集核酸样品中一个或多个感兴趣的基因；和(g) enriching the nucleic acid sample for one or more genes of interest; and (h)在即将测序之前定量核酸样品。(h) Quantification of nucleic acid samples immediately prior to sequencing. 13.根据权利要求12所述的方法，其中所述一个或多个衔接子序列包括用于引发测序反应和/或核酸扩增反应的核酸序列。13. The method of claim 12, wherein the one or more adapter sequences comprise a nucleic acid sequence for priming a sequencing reaction and/or a nucleic acid amplification reaction. 14.根据权利要求12所述的方法，其中所述一个或多个衔接子序列包含分子鉴别标签。14. The method of claim 12, wherein the one or more adapter sequences comprise a molecular identification tag. 15.根据权利要求1-14中任一项所述的方法，其中确定BRCA1基因或BRCA2基因中的一种或多种变体。15. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein one or more variants in the BRCA1 gene or the BRCA2 gene are determined. 16.根据权利要求1-14中任一项所述的方法，还包括通过Sanger测序证实所述变体的存在。16. The method of any one of claims 1-14, further comprising confirming the presence of the variant by Sanger sequencing. 17.根据权利要求16所述的方法，其中分析感兴趣的编码区包括判读感兴趣区域中的每个位置的变体。17. The method of claim 16, wherein analyzing the coding region of interest comprises calling variants at each position in the region of interest. 18.根据权利要求16所述的方法，其中使用改良的基因组分析工具包变体判读器来进行变体判读。18. The method of claim 16, wherein variant calling is performed using a modified Genome Analysis Toolkit variant caller. 19.根据权利要求16所述的方法，其中将读段映射到基因组参考序列是用BurrowsWheeler Aligner进行的。19. The method of claim 16, wherein mapping the reads to a genomic reference sequence is performed using BurrowsWheeler Aligner. 20.根据权利要求16所述的方法，其中将读段映射到基因组参考序列不包括软剪切。20. The method of claim 16, wherein mapping the reads to a genomic reference sequence does not include soft clipping. 21.根据权利要求16所述的方法，其中所述基因组参考序列是GRCh37.1人类基因组参考序列。21. The method of claim 16, wherein the genomic reference sequence is the GRCh37.1 human genome reference sequence. 22.一种具有存储的指令的非瞬态计算机可读介质，所述指令包括：22. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions, the instructions comprising: (a) 从核酸测序仪获得原始测序数据的指令，其中原始测序数据是由核酸样品产生的，其中使用一个或多个生物素化的RNA诱饵对所述核酸样品中的一个或多个感兴趣的基因进行外显子捕获；(a) an instruction to obtain raw sequencing data from a nucleic acid sequencer, wherein the raw sequencing data is generated by a nucleic acid sample, wherein one or more biotinylated RNA baits are used to perform exon capture on one or more genes of interest in the nucleic acid sample; (b) 从所述原始测序数据去除未通过质量过滤器的低质量读段的指令；(b) an instruction to remove low-quality reads that fail to pass the quality filter from the raw sequencing data; (c) 从经过滤的原始测序数据中修剪掉衔接子和分子鉴别序列的指令；(c) instructions for trimming adapters and molecular identification sequences from the filtered raw sequencing data; (d) 将经过滤的原始测序数据映射到基因组参考序列以生成映射的读段的指令；(d) instructions for mapping the filtered raw sequencing data to a genomic reference sequence to generate mapped reads; (e) 对映射的读段进行排序和索引的指令；(e) instructions for sorting and indexing mapped reads; (f) 将所述读段添加到数据文件以生成经处理的序列文件的指令；(f) instructions for adding the read segments to a data file to generate a processed sequence file; (g) 创建重新比对目标的指令；(g) creating instructions for re-aligning the target; (h)对经处理的序列文件进行局部重新比对以生成重新比对的序列文件的指令；(h) instructions for locally realigning the processed sequence file to generate a realigned sequence file; (i) 从重新比对的序列文件中去除重复读段的指令；和(i) instructions for removing duplicate reads from the realigned sequence files; and (j) 分析感兴趣的编码区的指令；(j) instructions for analyzing the coding region of interest; 其中使用改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对工具来进行步骤(g)和(h)的指令，所述改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对工具限于对一个或多个基因内的感兴趣核酸区域进行重新比对，其中所述感兴趣核酸区域由所述一个或多个基因的编码外显子+/-50个碱基组成，所述基因选自BRCA1或BRCA2，其中所述局部重新比对不包括碱基质量分数重新校准，其中使用改良的基因组分析工具包变体判读器进行变体判读，其中将读段映射到基因组参考序列是用Burrows Wheeler Aligner进行的。wherein the instructions of steps (g) and (h) are performed using a modified Smith-Waterman local realignment tool, wherein the modified Smith-Waterman local realignment tool is limited to realigning a nucleic acid region of interest within one or more genes, wherein the nucleic acid region of interest consists of +/- 50 bases of the coding exons of the one or more genes, and the genes are selected from BRCA1 or BRCA2 , wherein the local realignment does not include base quality score recalibration, wherein variant calling is performed using a modified Genome Analysis Toolkit variant caller, and wherein mapping the reads to the genomic reference sequence is performed using a Burrows Wheeler Aligner. 23.根据权利要求22所述的非瞬态计算机可读介质，其中分析感兴趣的编码区包括判读感兴趣区域中的每个位置的变体。23. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein analyzing the coding region of interest comprises calling a variant at each position in the region of interest. 24.根据权利要求22所述的非瞬态计算机可读介质，其中将读段映射到基因组参考序列不包括软剪切。24. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein mapping the reads to a genomic reference sequence does not include soft clipping. 25.根据权利要求22所述的非瞬态计算机可读介质，其中所述基因组参考序列是GRCh37.1人类基因组参考序列。25. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 22, wherein the genomic reference sequence is the GRCh37.1 human genome reference sequence. 26.一种系统，其包括：26. A system comprising: 一个或多个电子处理器，其被配置为：One or more electronic processors configured to: (a) 从核酸测序仪获得原始测序数据，其中原始测序数据是由核酸样品产生的，其中使用一个或多个生物素化的RNA诱饵对所述核酸样品中的一个或多个感兴趣的基因进行外显子捕获；(a) obtaining raw sequencing data from a nucleic acid sequencer, wherein the raw sequencing data is generated by a nucleic acid sample, wherein one or more biotinylated RNA baits are used to perform exon capture on one or more genes of interest in the nucleic acid sample; (b) 从原始测序数据中去除未通过质量过滤器的低质量读段；(b) removing low-quality reads that failed the quality filter from the raw sequencing data; (c) 从经过滤的原始测序数据中修剪掉衔接子和分子鉴别序列；(c) trimming away adapters and molecular identification sequences from the filtered raw sequencing data; (d) 将经过滤的原始测序数据映射到基因组参考序列以生成映射的读段；(d) mapping the filtered raw sequencing data to a genome reference sequence to generate mapped reads; (e) 对映射的读段进行排序和索引；(e) sorting and indexing the mapped reads; (f) 将所述读段添加到数据文件以生成经处理的序列文件；(f) adding the reads to a data file to generate a processed sequence file; (g) 创建重新比对目标；(g) creating re-alignment targets; (h) 对经处理的序列文件进行局部重新比对以生成重新比对的序列文件；(h) locally realigning the processed sequence file to generate a realigned sequence file; (i) 从重新比对的序列文件中去除重复读段；和(i) removing duplicate reads from the realigned sequence files; and (j) 分析感兴趣的编码区；(j) analysis of coding regions of interest; 其中使用改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对工具来进行步骤(g)和(h)，所述改良的Smith-Waterman局部重新比对工具限于对一个或多个基因内的感兴趣核酸区域进行重新比对，其中所述感兴趣核酸区域由所述一个或多个基因的编码外显子+/-50个碱基组成，所述基因选自BRCA1或BRCA2，其中所述局部重新比对不包括碱基质量分数重新校准，其中使用改良的基因组分析工具包变体判读器进行变体判读，其中将读段映射到基因组参考序列是用Burrows Wheeler Aligner进行的。wherein steps (g) and (h) are performed using a modified Smith-Waterman local realignment tool, the modified Smith-Waterman local realignment tool being limited to realignment of nucleic acid regions of interest within one or more genes, wherein the nucleic acid regions of interest consist of +/- 50 bases of coding exons of the one or more genes, the genes being selected from BRCA1 or BRCA2 , wherein the local realignment does not include base quality score recalibration, wherein variant calling is performed using a modified Genome Analysis Toolkit variant caller, and wherein mapping of reads to a genomic reference sequence is performed using a Burrows Wheeler Aligner.
