## Patent Reference

- Title: Methods of using genetic markers associated with endometriosis
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/US20210292841A1/en

### Abstract

Abstract Disclosed herein are methods of using genetic markers associated with endometriosis, for example via a computer-implemented program to predict risk of developing endometriosis, and methods of preventing or treating endometriosis or a symptom thereof.

### Description

Description CROSS REFERENCE This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/728,263 filed Sep. 7, 2018, U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/741,434 filed Oct. 4, 2018, U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/741,805 filed Oct. 5, 2018, U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/741,437 filed Oct. 4, 2018, U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/741,807 filed Oct. 5, 2018, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/741,439 filed Oct. 4, 2018, each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. BRIEF SUMMARY The methods and systems described herein provide an approach for sequencing a nucleic acid sample using high throughput methods to detect genetic variants. These methods provide improved methods in the field of diagnosis, assessment and treatment of endometriosis. For example, disclosed herein is the use of nanopore sequencing to detect one or more genetic variants in a nucleic acid sample, wherein the one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 1, Table 2 or Table 3. INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned, disclosed or referenced in this specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG. 1A-1B is a set of bar charts showing distribution of predictive score using 775 rare variants among 917 endometriosis subjects and 917 controls generated through simulation using the ExAc published frequencies (All rare variants are assumed to be independent). FIG. 2 is a boxplot of the predictive score across the clinical subtypes of endometriosis. Endoscore is uniform across the severity of endometriosis. FIG. 3 is a pie chart showing diverse pathways implicated by these 729 genes. No pathway reaches statistical significance, but multiple genes implicated in the Wnt, cadherin, integrin, and inflammation medicated by cytokine signaling pathways. FIG. 4 is a diagram showing three experimental design strategies. Sequencing nuclear families can help identify Mendelian segregation, whereas relative pairs can help uncover distant relationships with IBD. Unrelated individuals are typically studied to identify common variants with small effects. FIG. 5 is a diagram showing a nuclear family with an IGF2 mutation on the left and an extended pedigree with a LONP1 mutation to the right. FIG. 6 is a diagram of mutation patterns cis/trans/haplotypes. FIG. 7 is a bar chart showing example of results: genes implicated in GWAS (genome-wide association studies) meta-analyses. FIG. 8A-8C is a set of diagrams showing striking excess of pathogenic mutations (p<10−16). FIG. 9 is a set of charts showing examples of FN1 and GREB1 in which multiple damaging mutations were found. FIG. 10 is a diagram showing a computer-based system that may be programmed or otherwise configured to implement methods provided herein. FIG. 11 is a diagram showing a method and system as disclosed herein. FIG. 12 shows the whole exome sequencing method used in Example 9. FIG. 13 shows the sample population of Example 9 of 137 women with surgically confirmed endometriosis and a common ancestor born in 1608. FIG. 14 shows a common ancestor in GenDB 15-17 generations ago. FIG. 15 shows a three generation family with 7 women affected with endometriosis is shown in FIG. 15A with a brief clinical description of their endometriosis-related symptoms tabularized in FIG. 15B. in addition, patient 1 has been diagnosed with 14 additional co-morbidities including: Crohn's disease, interstitial cystitis, urinary bladder diverticulum, bronchial asthma, osteoporosis, multinodual goiter, cardiovascular disease, gastroesophageal reflux disease, malignant tumor of urinary bladder, Barrett's esophagus, lupus erythematosus, ankylosing spondyitis, multiple sclerosis, and bilateral cataract. FIG. 16 shows the chromosomal position and characteristics of the genetic variants surrounding the hemizygous deletions is shown to the left, and the genotypes for each of the seven affected women is shown to the right. Bold boarders indicate the extent of the deletion and the individual that carries the deletions. Thin boarders indicate possible carriers of the deletion. FIG. 17 shows results of Example 11 including number and percentage of matched probands. FIG. 18 shows the materials and methods of Example 11. FIG. 19 shows percentage of affected subjects in both the index pedigree and unrelated pedigrees. FIG. 20 shows the rate of surgically diagnosed endometriosis. DETAILED DESCRIPTION Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of the ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the compositions or unit doses herein, some methods and materials are now described. Unless mentioned otherwise, the techniques employed or contemplated herein are standard methodologies. The materials, methods and examples are illustrative only and not limiting. The details of one or more inventive instances are set forth in the accompanying drawings, the claims, and the description herein. Other features, objects, and advantages of the inventive instances disclosed and contemplated herein can be combined with any other instance unless explicitly excluded. In some of many aspects, the disclosure provides methods of using genetic markers associated with endometriosis, for example via a computer-implemented program to predict risk of developing endometriosis, and methods of preventing or treating endometriosis or a symptom thereof. The methods disclosed herein can prevent or cancel an invasive procedure, such as a laparoscopy, that would otherwise have been performed on a subject but for the results, for example a (negative) diagnosis/prognosis, from the methods disclosed herein performed on the subject. In some cases, genetic markers disclosed herein can be used for early diagnosis and prognosis of endometriosis, as well as early clinical intervention to mitigate progression of the disease. The use of these genetic markers can allow selection of subjects for clinical trials involving novel treatment methods. In some instances, genetic markers disclosed herein can be used to predict endometriosis and endometriosis progression, for example in treatment decisions for individuals who are recognized as having endometriosis. In some instances, genetic markers disclosed herein can enable prognosis of endometriosis in much larger populations compared with the populations which can currently be evaluated by using existing risk factors and biomarkers. In some cases, disclosed herein is a method for endometriosis diagnosis/prognosis that can utilize detection of endometriosis associated biomarkers such as single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), insertion deletion polymorphisms (indels), damaging mutation variants, loss of function variants, synonymous mutation variants, nonsynonymous mutation variants, nonsense mutations, recessive markers, splicing/splice-site variants, frameshift mutations, insertions, deletions, genomic rearrangements, stop-gain, stop-loss, Rare Variants (RVs), some of which are identified in Tables 1-4 (or diagnostically and predicatively functionally comparable biomarkers). In some instances, the method can comprise using a statistical assessment method such as Multi Dimensional Scaling analysis (MDS), logistic regression, machine learning, or Bayesian analysis. Some of the variants listed in Table 1 can be splicing variants, for example TMED3(NM_007364:exon1:c.168+1G>A), NM_001276480:c.-160+1G>A, KCNK6(NM_004823:exon2:c.323-1G>A), RGPD4(NM_182588:exon19:c.2606-1G>T), NM_001001891:exon18:c.1988+1G>A, NM_001882:exon3:c.176-2->C. The NM number indicates that a particular GenBank cDNA reference sequence was used for reference. The “c” indicates that the nucleotide number which follows is based on coding DNA sequence. The numbers provide the position of the mutation in the DNA. For instance, 168+1G>A means one base after (+1) the 168th coding nucleotide at the end of the exon is mutated from a G to an A. Likewise for NM_182588:exon19:c.2606-1G>T, one base before (−1) the 2606th coding nucleotide. NM_001882:exon3:c.176-2->C involves an insertion of a C. In some cases, disclosed herein is a treatment method to a subject determined to have or be predisposed to endometriosis. In some instances, the method can comprise administering to the subject a hormone therapy or an assisted reproductive technology therapy. In some instances, the method can comprise administering to the subject a therapy that at least partially compensates for endometriosis, prevents or reduces the severity of endometriosis that the subject would otherwise develop, or prevents endometriosis related complications, cancers, or associated disorders. In some cases, provided herein is identification of new variants such as SNPs or indels, unique combinations of such variants, and haplotypes of variants that are associated with endometriosis and related pathologies. In some instances, the polymorphisms disclosed herein can be directly useful as targets for the design of diagnostic reagents and the development of therapeutic agents for use in the diagnosis and treatment of endometriosis and related pathologies. Based on the identification of variants associated with endometriosis, the disclosure can provide methods of detecting these variants as well as the design and preparation of detection reagents needed to accomplish this task. Provided herein are novel variants in genetic sequences involved in endometriosis, methods of detecting these variants in a test sample, methods of identifying individuals who have an altered risk of developing endometriosis and for suggesting treatment options for endometriosis based on the presence of a variant(s) disclosed herein or its encoded product and methods of identifying individuals who are more or less likely to respond to a treatment. In some cases, provided herein are variants such as SNPs and indels associated with endometriosis, nucleic acid molecules containing variants, methods and reagents for the detection of the variants disclosed herein, uses of these variants for the development of detection reagents, and assays or kits that utilize such reagents. In some instances, the variants disclosed herein can be useful for diagnosing, screening for, and evaluating predisposition to endometriosis and progression of endometriosis. In some instances, the variants can be useful in the determining individual subject treatment plans and design of clinical trials of devices for possible use in the treatment of endometriosis. In some instances, the variants and their encoded products can be useful targets for the development of therapeutic agents. In some instances, the variants combined with other non-genetic clinical factors can be useful for diagnosing, screening, evaluating predisposition to endometriosis, assessing risk of progression of endometriosis, determining individual subject treatment plans and design of clinical trials of devices for possible use in the treatment of endometriosis. In some instances, the variants can be useful in the selection of recipients for an oral contraceptive type therapeutic. Definitions Unless otherwise indicated, open terms for example “contain,” “containing,” “include,” “including,” and the like mean comprising. The singular forms “a”, “an”, and “the” are used herein to include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Accordingly, unless the contrary is indicated, the numerical parameters set forth in this application are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. Unless otherwise indicated, some instances herein contemplate numerical ranges. When a numerical range is provided, unless otherwise indicated, the range includes the range endpoints. Unless otherwise indicated, numerical ranges include all values and subranges therein as if explicitly written out. Unless otherwise indicated, any numerical ranges and/or values herein, following or not following the term “about,” can be at 85-115% (i.e., plus or minus 15%) of the numerical ranges and/or values. As used herein, “endometriosis” can refer to any nonmalignant disorder in which functioning endometrial tissue is present in a location in the body other than the endometrium of the uterus, i.e. outside the uterine cavity or is present within the myometrium of the uterus. For purposes herein it also includes conditions, such as adenomyosis/adenomyoma, that exhibit myometrial tissue in the lesions. Endometriosis can include endometriosis externa, endometrioma, adenomyosis, adenomyomas, adenomyotic nodules of the uterosacral ligaments, endometriotic nodules other than of the uterosacral ligaments, autoimmune endometriosis, mild endometriosis, moderate endometriosis, severe endometriosis, superficial (peritoneal) endometriosis, deep (invasive) endometriosis, ovarian endometriosis, endometriosis-related cancers, and/or “endometriosis-associated conditions”. Unless stated otherwise, the term endometriosis is used herein to describe any of these conditions. As used herein, “treatment” includes one or more of: reducing the frequency and/or severity of symptoms, elimination of symptoms and/or their underlying cause, and improvement or remediation of damage. For example, treatment of endometriosis includes, for example, relieving the pain experienced by a woman suffering from endometriosis, and/or causing the regression or disappearance of endometriotic lesions. As used herein, a “therapeutic” can include a medical device, a pharmaceutical composition, a medical procedure, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, a medical device may comprise a spinal brace. In some embodiments a medical device may comprise an artificial disc device. A medical device may comprise a surgical implant. A pharmaceutical composition may comprise a muscle relaxant, an anti-depressant, a steroid, an opioid, a cannabis-based therapeutic, acetaminophen, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory, a neuropathic agent, a cannabis, a progestin, a progesterone, or any combination thereof. A neuropathic agent may comprise gabapentin. A non-steroidal anti-inflammatory may comprise naproxen, ibuprofen, a COX-2 inhibitor, or any combination thereof. A pharmaceutical composition may comprises a biologic agent, cellular therapy, regenerative medicine therapy, a tissue engineering approach, a stem cell transplantation or any combination thereof. A medical procedure may comprise an epidural injection (such as a steroid injection), acupuncture, exercise, physical therapy, an ultrasound, a radiofrequency ablation, a surgical therapy, a chiropractic manipulation, an osteopathic manipulation, or any combination thereof. A therapeutic can include a regenerative therapy such as a protein, a stem cell, a cord blood cell, an umbilical cord tissue, a tissue, or any combination thereof. A therapeutic can include cannabis. A therapeutic can include a biosimilar. “Haplotype” can mean a combination of genotypes on the same chromosome occurring in a linkage disequilibrium block. Haplotypes serve as markers for linkage disequilibrium blocks, and at the same time provide information about the arrangement of genotypes within the blocks. Typing of only certain variants which serve as tags can, therefore, reveal all genotypes for variants located within a block. Thus, the use of haplotypes greatly facilitates identification of candidate genes associated with diseases and drug sensitivity. “Linkage disequilibrium” or “LD” can mean that a particular combination of alleles (alternative nucleotides) or genetic variants for example at two or more different SNP (or RV) sites are non-randomly co-inherited (i.e., the combination of alleles at the different SNP (or RV) sites occurs more or less frequently in a population than the separate frequencies of occurrence of each allele or the frequency of a random formation of haplotypes from alleles in a given population). The term “LD” can differ from “linkage,” which describes the association of two or more loci on a chromosome with limited recombination between them. LD can also be used to refer to any non-random genetic association between allele(s) at two or more different SNP (or RV) sites. In some instances, when a genetic marker (e.g. SNP or RV) is identified as the genetic marker associated with a disease (in this instance endometriosis), it can be the minor allele (MA) of the particular genetic marker that is associated with the disease. In some instances, if the Odds Ratio (OR) of the MA is greater than 1.0, the MA of the genetic marker (in this instance the endometriosis associated genetic marker) can be correlated with an increased risk of endometriosis in a case subject as compared to a control subject and can be considered a causative marker (C), and if the OR of the MA less than 1.0, the MA of the genetic marker can be correlated with a decreased risk of endometriosis in a case subject as compared to a control subject and can be considered a protective marker (P). “Linkage disequilibrium block” or “LD block” can mean a region of the genome that contains multiple variants located in proximity to each other and that are transmitted as a block. Biological samples obtained from individuals (e.g., human subjects) may be any sample from which a genetic material (e.g., nucleic acid sample) may be derived. Samples/Genetic materials may be from buccal swabs, saliva, blood, hair, nail, skin, cell, or any other type of tissue sample. In some instances, the genetic material (e.g., nucleic acid sample) comprises mRNA, cDNA, genomic DNA, or PCR amplified products produced therefrom, or any combination thereof. In some instances, the genetic material (e.g., nucleic acid sample) comprises PCR amplified nucleic acids produced from cDNA or mRNA. In some instances, the genetic material (e.g., nucleic acid sample) comprises PCR amplified nucleic acids produced from genomic DNA. As used herein, the term “cell-free” or “cell free” can refer to the condition of the nucleic acid sequence as it appeared in the body before the sample is obtained from the body. For example, circulating cell-free nucleic acid sequences in a sample may have originated as cell-free nucleic acid sequences circulating in the bloodstream of the human body. In contrast, nucleic acid sequences that are extracted from a solid tissue, such as a biopsy, are generally not considered to be “cell-free.” In some cases, cell-free DNA may comprise fetal DNA, maternal DNA, or a combination thereof. In some cases, cell-free DNA may comprise DNA fragments released into a blood plasma. In some cases, the cell-free DNA may comprise circulating tumor DNA. In some cases, cell-free DNA may comprise circulating DNA indicative of a tissue origin, a disease or a condition. A cell-free nucleic acid sequence may be isolated from a blood sample. A cell-free nucleic acid sequence may be isolated from a plasma sample. A cell-free nucleic acid sequence may comprise a complementary DNA (cDNA). In some cases, one or more cDNAs may form a cDNA library. Analysis of Rare and Private Mutations in Sequenced Endometriosis Genes In some cases, the disclosure provides an analysis to evaluate a coding region of a gene as a component of a genetic diagnostic or predictive test for endometriosis. In some instances, the analysis can comprise one or more of the approaches disclosed herein. In some instances, the analysis can comprise performing DNA variant search on the next generation sequencing output file using a standard software designed for this purpose, for example Life Technologies TMAP algorithm with their default parameter settings, and Life Technologies Torrent Variant Caller software. ANNOVAR can be used to classify coding variants as synonymous, missense, frameshift, splicing, stop-gain, or stop-loss. Variants can be considered “loss-of-function” if the variant causes a stop-loss, stop-gain, splicing, or frame-shift insertion or deletion). In some instances, the analysis can comprise evaluating prediction of an effect of each variant on protein function in silico using a variety of different software algorithms: Polyphen 2, Sift, Mutation Accessor, Mutation Taster, FATHMM, LRT, MetaLR, or any combination thereof. Missense variants can be deemed “damaging” if they are predicted to be damaging by at least one of the seven algorithms tested. In some instances, the analysis can comprise searching population databases (e.g., gnomAD) and proprietary endometriosis allele frequency databases for the prevalence of any loss of function or damaging mutations identified by these analyses. The log of the odds ratio can be used to weight the marker when the variant has been previously observed in the reference databases. When a damaging variant or loss of function variant has never been reported in the reference databases, a default odds ratio of 10 can be used to weight the finding. In some instances, the analysis can comprise incorporating findings into the Risk Score as with the other low-frequency alleles. Risk Score=Summation [log(OR)×Count], where count equals the number of low frequency alleles detected at each endometriosis associated locus. Risk scores can be converted to probability using a nomogram based on confirmed diagnoses. In some instances, the methods of the disclosure can provide a high sensitivity of detecting gene mutations and diagnosing endometriosis that is greater than 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 95.5%, 96%, 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more. In some instances, the methods disclosed herein can provide a high specificity of detecting and classifying gene mutations and endometriosis, for example, greater than 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 95.5%, 96%, 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more. In some instances, a nominal specificity for the method disclosed herein can be greater than or equal to 70%. In some instances, a nominal Negative Predictive Value (NPV) for the method disclosed herein can be greater than or equal to 95%. In some instances, a NPV for the method disclosed herein can be about 95%, 95.5%, 96%, 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more. In some instances, a nominal Positive Predictive Value (PPV) for the method disclosed herein can be greater than or equal to 95%. In some instances, a PPV for the method disclosed herein can be about 95%, 95.5%, 96%, 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more. In some instances, the accuracy of the methods disclosed herein in diagnosing endometriosis can be greater than 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 95.5%, 96%, 96.5%, 97%, 97.5%, 98%, 98.5%, 99%, 99.5% or more. Computer Implemented Methods In some aspects, the disclosure provides methods for analysis of gene sequence data associated software and computer systems. The method, for example being computer implemented, can enable a clinical geneticist or other healthcare technician to sift through vast amounts of gene sequence data, to identify potential disease-causing genomic variants. In some cases, the gene sequence data is from a patient who may be suspected of having a genetic disorder such as endometriosis. In some cases, provided herein is a method for identifying a genetic disorder such as endometriosis or predicting a risk thereof in an individual, or identifying a genetic variant that is causative of a phenotype in an individual. In some instances, the method can comprise determining gene sequence for a patient suspected of having a genetic disorder, identifying sequence variants, annotating the identified variants based on one or more criteria, and filtering or searching the variants at least partially based on the annotations, to thereby identify potential disease-causing variants. In some instances, the gene sequence is obtained by use of a sequencing instrument, or alternatively, gene sequence data is obtained from another source, such as for example, a commercial sequencing service provider. Gene sequence can be chromosomal sequence, cDNA sequence, or any nucleotide sequence information that allows for detection of genetic disease. Generally, the amount of sequence information is such that computational tools are required for data analysis. For example, the sequence data may represent at least half of the individual's genomic or cDNA sequence (e.g., of a representative cell population or tissue), or the individuals entire genomic or cDNA sequence. In various embodiments, the sequence data comprises the nucleotide sequence for at least 1 million base pairs, at least 10 million base pairs, or at least 50 million base pairs. In certain embodiments, the DNA sequence is the individual's exome sequence or full exonic sequence component (i.e., the exome; sequence for each of the exons in each of the known genes in the entire genome). In some embodiments, the source of genomic DNA or cDNA may be any suitable source, and may be a sample particularly indicative of a disease or phenotype of interest, including blood cells (e.g, PBMCs, or a T-cell or B-cell population). In certain embodiments, the source of the sample is a tissue or sample that is potentially malignant. In some instances, whole genome sequence can comprise the entire sequence (including all chromosomes) of an individual's germline genome. In some embodiments, the concatenated length for a whole genome sequence is approximately 3.2 Gbases or 3.2 billion nucleotides. The term “subject,” as used herein, may be any animal or living organism. Animals can be mammals, such as humans, non-human primates, rodents such as mice and rats, dogs, cats, pigs, sheep, rabbits, and others. A subject may be a dog. A subject may be a human. Animals can be fish, reptiles, or others. Animals can be neonatal, infant, adolescent, or adult animals. Humans can be more than about: 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 65, 70, 75, or about 80 years of age. The subject may have or be suspected of having a condition or a disease, such as endometriosis or related condition. The subject may be a patient, such as a patient being treated for a condition or a disease, such as a patient suffering from endometriosis. The subject may be predisposed to a risk of developing a condition or a disease such as endometriosis. The subject may be in remission from a condition or a disease, such as a patient recovering from endometriosis. The subject may be healthy. The subject may be a subject in need thereof. The subject may be a female subject or a male subject. The term “sequencing” as used herein, may comprise high-throughput sequencing, next-gen sequencing, Maxam-Gilbert sequencing, massively parallel signature sequencing, Polony sequencing, 454 pyrosequencing, pH sequencing, Sanger sequencing (chain termination), Illumina sequencing, SOLiD sequencing, Ion Torrent semiconductor sequencing, DNA nanoball sequencing, Heliscope single molecule sequencing, single molecule real time (SMRT) sequencing, nanopore sequencing, shot gun sequencing, RNA sequencing, Enigma sequencing, sequencing-by-hybridization, sequencing-by-ligation, or any combination thereof. The sequencing output data may be subject to quality controls, including filtering for quality (e.g., confidence) of base reads. Exemplary sequencing systems include 454 pyrosequencing (454 Life Sciences), Illumina (Solexa) sequencing, SOLiD (Applied Biosystems), and Ion Torrent Systems' pH sequencing system. In some cases, a nucleic acid of a sample may be sequenced without an associated label or tag. In some cases, a nucleic acid of a sample may be sequenced, the nucleic acid of which may have a label or tag associated with it. In some instances, the gene sequence may be determined by any suitable method. For example, the gene sequence may be a cDNA sequence determined by clonal amplification (e.g., emulsion PCR) and sequencing. Base calling may be conducted based on any available method, including Sanger sequencing (chain termination), pH sequencing, pyrosequencing, sequencing-by-hybridization, sequencing-by-ligation, etc. The sequencing output data may be subject to quality controls, including filtering for quality (e.g., confidence) of base reads. Exemplary sequencing systems include 454 pyrosequencing (454 Life Sciences), Illumina (Solexa) sequencing, SOLiD (Applied Biosystems), and Ion Torrent Systems' pH sequencing system. In some embodiment, sequencing can be performed by nanopore sequencing. For example, Oxford nanopore sequencing. Nanopores may be used to sequence, a sample, a small portion (such as one full gene or a portion of one gene), a substantial portion (such as multiple genes or multiple chromosomes), or the entire genomic sequence of an individual. Nanopore sequencing technology may be commercially available or under development from Sequenom (San Diego, Calif.), Illumina (San Diego, Calif.), Oxford Nanopore Technologies LTD (Kidlington, United Kingdom), and Agilent Laboratories (Santa Clara, Calif.). Nanopore sequencing methods and apparatus are have been described in the art and for example are provided in U.S. Pat. No. 5,795,782, herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Nanopore sequencing can use electrophoresis to transport a sample through a pore. A nanopore system may contain an electrolytic solution such that when a constant electric field is applied, an electric current can be observed in the system. The magnitude of the electric current density across a nanopore surface may depend on the nanopore's dimensions and the composition of the sample that is occupying the nanopore. During nanopore sequencing, when a sample approaches and or goes through the nanopore, the samples cause characteristic changes in electric current density across nanopore surfaces, these characteristic changes in the electric current enables identification of the sample. Nanopores used herein may be solid-state nanopores, protein nanopores, or hybrid nanopores comprising protein nanopores or organic nanotubes such as carbon or graphene nanotubes, configured in a solid-state membrane, or like framework. In some embodiments, nanopore sequencing can be biological, a solid state nanopore or a hybrid biological/solid state nanopore. In some instances, a biological nanopore can comprise transmembrane proteins that may be embedded in lipid membranes. In some embodiments, a nanopore described herein may comprise alpha hemolysin. In some embodiments, a nanopore described herein may comprise Mycobacterium smegmatis porin. Solid state nanopores do not incorporate proteins into their systems. Instead, solid state nanopore technology uses various metal or metal alloy substrates with nanometer sized pores that allow samples to pass through. Solid state nanopores may be fabricated in a variety of materials including but not limited to, silicon nitride (Si3N4), silicon dioxide (SiO2), and the like. In some instances, nanopore sequencing may comprise use of tunneling current, wherein a measurement of electron tunneling through bases as sample (ssDNA) translocates through the nanopore is obtained. In some embodiments, a nanopore system can have solid state pores with single walled carbon nanotubes across the diameter of the pore. In some embodiments, nanoelectrodes may be used on a nanopore system described herein. In some embodiments, fluorescence can be used with nanopores, for example solid state nanopores and fluorescence. For example, In such a system the fluorescence sequencing method converts each base of a sample into a characteristic representation of multiple nucleotides which bind to a fluorescent probe strand-forming dsDNA (were the sample comprises DNA). Where a two color system is used, each base is identified by two separate fluorescence, and will therefore be converted into two specific sequences. Probes may consist of a fluorophore and quencher at the start and end of each sequence, respectively. Each fluorophore may be extinguished by the quencher at the end of the preceding sequence. When the dsDNA is translocating through a solid state nanopore, the probe strand may be stripped off, and the upstream fluorophore will fluoresce. In some embodiments, a 1-100 nm channel or aperture may be formed through a solid substrate, usually a planar substrate, such as a membrane, through which an analyte, such as single stranded DNA, is induced to translocate. In other embodiments, a 2-50 nm channel or aperture is formed through a substrate; and in still other embodiments, a 2-30 nm, or a 2-20 nm, or a 3-30 nm, or a 3-20 nm, or a 3-10 nm channel or aperture if formed through a substrate. In some embodiments, nanopores used in connection with the methods and devices of the invention are provided in the form of arrays, such as an array of clusters of nanopores, which may be disposed regularly on a planar surface. In some embodiments, clusters are each in a separate resolution limited area so that optical signals from nanopores of different clusters are distinguishable by the optical detection system employed, but optical signals from nanopores within the same cluster cannot necessarily be assigned to a specific nanopore within such cluster by the optical detection system employed. In some instances, the gene sequence may be mapped with one or more reference sequences to identify sequence variants. For example, the base reads are mapped against a reference sequence, which in various embodiments is presumed to be a “normal” non-disease sequence. The DNS sequence derived from the Human Genome Project is generally used as a “premier” reference sequence. A number of mapping applications are known, and include TMAP, BWA, GSMAPPER, ELAND, MOSAIK, and MAQ. Various other alignment tools are known, and could also be implemented to map the base reads. In some cases, based on the sequence alignments, and mapping results, sequence variants can be identified. Types of variants may include insertions, deletions, indels (a colocalized insertion and deletion), damaging mutation variants, loss of function variants, synonymous mutation variants, nonsynonymous mutation variants, nonsense mutations, recessive markers, splicing/splice-site variants, frameshift mutation, insertions, deletions, genomic rearrangements, stop-gain, stop-loss, Rare Variants (RVs), translocations, inversions, and substitutions. While the type of variants analyzed is not limited, the most numerous of the variant types will be single nucleotide substitutions, for which a wealth of data is currently available. In various embodiments, comparison of the test sequence with the reference sequence will produce at least 500 variants, at least 1000 variants, at least 3,000 variants, at least 5,000 variants, at least 10,000 variants, at least 20,000 variants, or at least 50,000 variants, but in some embodiments, will produce at least 1 million variants, at least 2 million variants, at least 3 million variants, at least 4 million variants, or at least 10 million variants. The tools provided herein enable the user to navigate the vast amounts of genetic data to identify potentially disease-causing variants. In some cases, a wealth of data can be extracted for the identified variants, including one or more of conservation scores, genic/genomic location, zygosity, SNP ID, Polyphen, FATHMM, LRT, Mutation Accessor, and SIFT predictions, splice site predictions, amino acid properties, disease associations, annotations for known variants, variant or allele frequency data, and gene annotations. Data may be calculated and/or extracted from one or more internal or external databases. Since certain categories of annotations (e.g., amino acid properties/PolyPhen and SIFT data) are dependent on a nature of the region of the genome in which they are contained (e.g., whether a variant is contained within a region translated to give rise to an amino acid sequence in a resultant protein), these annotations can be carried out for each known transcript. Exemplary external databases include OMIM (Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man), HGMD (The Human Gene Mutation Databse), PubMed, PolyPhen, SIFT, SpliceSite, reference genome databases, the University of California Santa Cruz (UCSC) genome database, CLINVAR database, the BioBase biological databases, the dbSNP Short Genetic Variations database, the Rat Genome Database (RGD), and/or the like. Various other databases may be employed for extracting data on identified variants. Variant information may be further stored in a central data repository, and the data extracted for future sequence analyses. In some instances, variants may be tagged by the user with additional descriptive information to aid subsequent analysis. For example, confidence in the existence of the variant can be recorded as confirmed, preliminary, or sequence artifact. Certain sequencing technologies have a tendency to produce certain types of sequence artifacts, and the method herein can allow such suspected artifacts to be recorded. The variants may be further tagged in basic categories of benign, pathogenic, or unknown, or as potentially of interest. In some instances, queries can be run to identify variants meeting certain criteria, or variant report pages can be browsed by chromosomal position or by gene, the latter allowing researchers to focus on only those variations that exist in a particular set of genes of interest. In some embodiments, the user selects only variants with well-documented and published disease associations (e.g., by filtering based on HGMD or other disease annotation). Alternatively, the user can filter for variants not previously associated with disease, but of a type likely to be deleterious, such as those introducing frameshifts, non-synonymous substitutions (predicted by Polyphen or SIFT), or premature terminations. Further, the user can exclude from analysis those variants believed to be neutral (based on their frequency of occurrence in studies populations), for example, through exclusion of variants in dbSNP. Additional exclusion criteria include mode of inheritance (e.g., heterozygosity), depth of coverage, and quality score. In certain embodiments, base calling is carried out to extract the sequence of the sequencing reads from an image file produced by an instrument scanner. Following base calling and base quality trimming/filtering, the reads are mapped against a reference sequence (assumed to be normal for the phenotype under analysis) to identify variations (variants) between the two with the assumption that one or more of these differences will be associated with phenotype of the individual whose DNA is under analysis. Subsequently, each variant is annotated with data that can be used to determine the likelihood that that particular variant is associated with the phenotype under analysis. The analysis may be fully or partially automated as described in detail below, and may include use of a central repository for data storage and analysis, and to present the data to analysts and clinical geneticists in a format that makes identification of variants with a high likelihood of being associated with the phenotypic difference more efficient and effective. In some embodiments, a user can be provided with the ability to run cross sample queries where the variants from multiple samples are interrogated simultaneously. In such embodiments, for example, a user can build a query to return data on only those variants that are exactly shared across a user defined group of samples. This can be useful for family based analyses where the same variant is believed to be associated with disease in each of the affected family members. For another example, the user can also build a query to return only those variants that are present in genes where the gene contains at least one, but not necessarily the same, variant. This can be useful where a group of individuals with disease are not related (the variants associated with the disease are not necessary exactly the same, but result in a common alteration in normal function). For yet another example, the user can specify to ignore genes containing variants in a user defined group of samples. This can be useful to exclude polymorphisms (variants believed or confirmed not to be associated with disease) where the user has access to a user defined group of control individuals who are believed to not have the disease associated variant. For each of these queries a user can additionally filter the variants by specifying any or all of the previously discussed filters on top of the cross sample analyses. This allows a user to identify variants matching these criteria, which are shared between or segregated amongst samples. For example, a variant analysis system can be implemented locally, or implemented using a host device and a network or cloud computing. For example, the variant analysis system can be software stored in memory of a personal computing device (PC) and implemented by a processor of the PC. In such embodiments, for example, the PC can download the software from a host device and/or install the software using any suitable device such as a compact disc (CD). The method may employ a computer-readable medium, or non-transitory processor-readable medium. Some embodiments described herein relate to a computer storage product with a non-transitory computer-readable medium (also can be referred to as a non-transitory processor-readable medium) having instructions or computer code thereon for performing various computer-implemented operations. The computer-readable medium (or processor-readable medium) is non-transitory in the sense that it does not include transitory propagating signals per se (e.g., a propagating electromagnetic wave carrying information on a transmission medium such as space or a cable). The media and computer code (also can be referred to as code) may be those designed and constructed for the specific purpose or purposes. Examples of non-transitory computer-readable media include, but are not limited to: magnetic storage media such as hard disks, floppy disks, and magnetic tape; optical storage media such as Compact Disc/Digital Video Discs (CD/DVDs), Compact Disc-Read Only Memories (CD-ROMs), and holographic devices; magneto-optical storage media such as optical disks; carrier wave signal processing modules; and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code, such as Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), Programmable Logic Devices (PLDs), Read-Only Memory (ROM) and Random-Access Memory (RAM) devices. Examples of computer code can include, but are not limited to, micro-code or micro-instructions, machine instructions, such as produced by a compiler, code used to produce a web service, and files containing higher-level instructions that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example, embodiments may be implemented using Python, Java, C++, or other programming languages (e.g., object-oriented programming languages) and development tools. Additional examples of computer code can include, but are not limited to, control signals, encrypted code, and compressed code. In some cases, variants provided herein may be “provided” in a variety of mediums to facilitate use thereof. As used in this section, “provided” can refer to a manufacture, other than an isolated nucleic acid molecule, that contains variant information of the disclosure. Such a manufacture provides the variant information in a form that allows a skilled artisan to examine the manufacture using means not directly applicable to examining the variants or a subset thereof as they exist in nature or in purified form. The variant information that may be provided in such a form includes any of the variant information provided by the disclosure such as, for example, polymorphic nucleic acid and/or amino acid sequence information, information about observed variant alleles, alternative codons, populations, allele frequencies, variant types, and/or affected proteins, or any other information provided herein. In some instances, the variants can be recorded on a computer readable medium. As used herein, “computer readable medium” can refer to any medium that can be read and accessed directly by a computer. Such media include, but are not limited to: magnetic storage media, such as floppy discs, hard disc storage medium, and magnetic tape; optical storage media such as CD-ROM; electrical storage media such as RAM and ROM; and hybrids of these categories such as magnetic/optical storage media. A skilled artisan can readily appreciate how any of the presently known computer readable media can be used to create a manufacture comprising computer readable medium having recorded thereon a nucleotide sequence of the disclosure. One such medium is provided with the present application, namely, the present application contains computer readable medium (CD-R) that has nucleic acid sequences (and encoded protein sequences) containing variants provided/recorded thereon in ASCII text format in a Sequence Listing along with accompanying Tables that contain detailed variant and sequence information. As used herein, “recorded” can refer to a process for storing information on computer readable medium. A skilled artisan can readily adopt any of the presently known methods for recording information on computer readable medium to generate manufactures comprising the variant information of the disclosure. A variety of data storage structures are available to a skilled artisan for creating a computer readable medium having recorded thereon a nucleotide or amino acid sequence of the disclosure. The choice of the data storage structure will generally be based on the means chosen to access the stored information. In addition, a variety of data processor programs and formats can be used to store the nucleotide/amino acid sequence information of the disclosure on computer readable medium. For example, the sequence information can be represented in a word processing text file, formatted in commercially-available software such as WordPerfect and Microsoft Word, represented in the form of an ASCII file, or stored in a database application, such as OB2, Sybase, Oracle, or the like. A skilled artisan can readily adapt any number of data processor structuring formats (e.g., text file or database) in order to obtain computer readable medium having recorded thereon the variant information of the disclosure. By providing the variants in computer readable form, a skilled artisan can access the variant information for a variety of purposes. Computer software is publicly available which allows a skilled artisan to access sequence information provided in a computer readable medium. Examples of publicly available computer software include BLAST and BLAZE search algorithms. In some cases, the disclosure can provide systems, particularly computer-based systems, which contain the variant information described herein. Such systems may be designed to store and/or analyze information on, for example, a large number of variant positions, or information on variant genotypes from a large number of individuals. The variant information of the disclosure represents a valuable information source. The variant information of the disclosure stored/analyzed in a computer-based system may be used for such computer-intensive applications as determining or analyzing variant allele frequencies in a population, mapping endometriosis genes, genotype-phenotype association studies, grouping variants into haplotypes, correlating variant haplotypes with response to particular treatments or for various other bioinformatic, pharmacogenomic or drug development. As used herein, “a computer-based system” can refer to the hardware means, software means, and data storage means used to analyze the variant information of the disclosure. The minimum hardware means of the computer-based systems of the disclosure typically comprises a central processing unit (CPU), input means, output means, and data storage means. A skilled artisan can readily appreciate that any one of the currently available computer-based systems are suitable for use in the disclosure. Such a system can be changed into a system of the disclosure by utilizing the variant information provided on the CD-R, or a subset thereof, without any experimentation. As stated above, the computer-based systems can comprise a data storage means having stored therein variants of the disclosure and the necessary hardware means and software means for supporting and implementing a search means. As used herein, “data storage means” can refer to memory which can store variant information of the disclosure, or a memory access means which can access manufactures having recorded thereon the variant information of the disclosure. As used herein, “search means” can refer to one or more programs or algorithms that are implemented on the computer-based system to identify or analyze variants in a target sequence based on the variant information stored within the data storage means. Search means can be used to determine which nucleotide is present at a particular variant position in the target sequence. As used herein, a “target sequence” can be any DNA sequence containing the variant position(s) to be searched or queried. A variety of structural formats for the input and output means can be used to input and output the information in the computer-based systems of the disclosure. An exemplary format for an output means is a display that depicts the presence or absence of specified nucleotides (alleles) at particular variant positions of interest. Such presentation can provide a rapid, binary scoring system for many variants simultaneously. In some cases, the disclosure provides computer-based systems that are programmed to implement methods of the disclosure. FIG. 10 shows a computer system101 that can be programmed or configured for endometriosis diagnosis. The computer system101 can regulate various aspects of detection of genetic variants associated with endometriosis of the disclosure. The computer system101 can be an electronic device of a user or a computer system that is remotely located with respect to the electronic device. The electronic device can be a mobile electronic device. The computer system101 includes a central processing unit (CPU, also “processor” and “computer processor” herein) 105, which can be a single core or multi core processor, or a plurality of processors for parallel processing. The computer system101 also includes memory or memory location 110 (e.g., random-access memory, read-only memory, flash memory), electronic storage unit 115 (e.g., hard disk), communication interface 120 (e.g., network adapter) for communicating with one or more other systems, and peripheral devices125, such as cache, other memory, data storage and/or electronic display adapters. The memory110, storage unit115, interface 120 and peripheral devices125 are in communication with the CPU105 through a communication bus (solid lines), such as a motherboard. The storage unit115 can be a data storage unit (or data repository) for storing data. The computer system101 can be operatively coupled to a computer network (“network”) 130 with the aid of the communication interface 120. The network130 can be the Internet, an internet and/or extranet, or an intranet and/or extranet that is in communication with the Internet. The network130 in some cases is a telecommunication and/or data network. The network130 can include one or more computer servers, which can enable distributed computing, such as cloud computing. The network130, in some cases with the aid of the computer system101, can implement a peer-to-peer network, which may enable devices coupled to the computer system101 to behave as a client or a server. The CPU105 can execute a sequence of machine-readable instructions, which can be embodied in a program or software. The instructions may be stored in a memory location, such as the memory110. The instructions can be directed to the CPU105, which can subsequently program or otherwise configure the CPU105 to implement methods of the disclosure. Examples of operations performed by the CPU105 can include fetch, decode, execute, and writeback. The CPU105 can be part of a circuit, such as an integrated circuit. One or more other components of the system101 can be included in the circuit. In some cases, the circuit is an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC). The storage unit115 can store files, such as drivers, libraries and saved programs. The storage unit115 can store user data, e.g., user preferences and user programs. The computer system101 in some cases can include one or more additional data storage units that are external to the computer system101, such as located on a remote server that is in communication with the computer system101 through an intranet or the Internet. The computer system101 can communicate with one or more remote computer systems through the network130. For instance, the computer system101 can communicate with a remote computer system of a user. Examples of remote computer systems include personal computers (e.g., portable PC), slate or tablet PC's (e.g., Apple® iPad, Samsung® Galaxy Tab), telephones, Smart phones (e.g., Apple® iPhone, Android-enabled device, Blackberry®), or personal digital assistants. The user can access the computer system101 via the network130. Methods as described herein can be implemented by way of machine (e.g., computer processor) executable code stored on an electronic storage location of the computer system101, such as, for example, on the memory110 or electronic storage unit115. The machine executable or machine readable code can be provided in the form of software. During use, the code can be executed by the processor105. In some cases, the code can be retrieved from the storage unit115 and stored on the memory110 for ready access by the processor105. In some situations, the electronic storage unit115 can be precluded, and machine-executable instructions are stored on memory110. The code can be pre-compiled and configured for use with a machine having a processer adapted to execute the code, or can be compiled during runtime. The code can be supplied in a programming language that can be selected to enable the code to execute in a pre-compiled or as-compiled fashion. Aspects of the systems and methods provided herein, such as the computer system101, can be embodied in programming. Various aspects of the technology may be thought of as “products” or “articles of manufacture” typically in the form of machine (or processor) executable code and/or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Machine-executable code can be stored on an electronic storage unit, such as memory (e.g., read-only memory, random-access memory, flash memory) or a hard disk. “Storage” type media can include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers, processors or the like, or associated modules thereof, such as various semiconductor memories, tape drives, disk drives and the like, which may provide non-transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications, for example, may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another, for example, from a management server or host computer into the computer platform of an application server. Thus, another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical, electrical and electromagnetic waves, such as used across physical interfaces between local devices, through wired and optical landline networks and over various air-links. The physical elements that carry such waves, such as wired or wireless links, optical links or the like, also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein, unless restricted to non-transitory, tangible “storage” media, terms such as computer or machine “readable medium” refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Hence, a machine readable medium, such as computer-executable code, may take many forms, including but not limited to, a tangible storage medium, a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non-volatile storage media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks, such as any of the storage devices in any computer(s) or the like, such as may be used to implement the databases, etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory, such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables; copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier-wave transmission media may take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals, or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer-readable media therefore include for example: a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD or DVD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards paper tape, any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a ROM, a PROM and EPROM, a FLASH-EPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave transporting data or instructions, cables or links transporting such a carrier wave, or any other medium from which a computer may read programming code and/or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution. The computer system101 can include or be in communication with an electronic display135 that comprises a user interface (UI) 140 for providing, for example a monitor. Examples of UI's include, without limitation, a graphical user interface (GUI) and web-based user interface. Methods and systems of the disclosure can be implemented by way of one or more algorithms. An algorithm can be implemented by way of software upon execution by the central processing unit105. The algorithm can, for example, Polyphen 2, Sift, Mutation Accessor, Mutation Taster, FATHMM, LRT, MetaLR, or any combination thereof. In some cases, as shown in FIG. 11, a sample202 containing a genetic material may be obtained from a subject 201, such as a human subject. A sample202 may be subjected to one or more methods as described herein, such as performing an assay. In some cases, an assay may comprise sequencing (such as nanopore sequencing), genotyping, hybridization, amplification, labeling, or any combination thereof. One or more results from a method may be input into a processor204. One or more input parameters such as a sample identification, subject identification, sample type, a reference, or other information may be input into a processor204. One or more metrics from an assay may be input into a processor204 such that the processor may produce a result, such as a diagnosis of endometriosis or a recommendation for a treatment. A processor may send a result, an input parameter, a metric, a reference, or any combination thereof to a display205, such as a visual display or graphical user interface. A processor204 may (i) send a result, an input parameter, a metric, or any combination thereof to a server207, (ii) receive a result, an input parameter, a metric, or any combination thereof from a server207, (iii) or a combination thereof. Methods of Detection of Variants In some aspects, the disclosure provides methods to detect variants, e.g, detecting a genetic variant in a panel comprising two or more genetic variants defining a minor allele disclosed herein (e.g., in Table 1). In some instances, the detecting comprises, DNA sequencing, hybridization with a complementary probe, an oligonucleotide ligation assay, a PCR-based assay, or any combination thereof. In some instances, the panel comprises at least: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 60, 70, 75, 80, 90, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, or more genetic variants defining minor alleles disclosed herein (e.g., in Table 1). In some instances, the genetic variant to detect or detected has an odds ratio (OR) of at least: 0.1, 1, 1.5, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 127, 130, 140, 150, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 3000, 3500, 4000, 4500, 5000, or more. In some embodiments, the OR is at least 127. In some instances, the panel to detect further comprises one or more protein damaging or loss of function variants in one or more genes selected from the group consisting of GAT2, CCDC169, CASP8AP2, POU2F3, CD19, IGSF3, GLI3, PEX26, OLIG3, CIB4, NKX3-2, CFTR, and any combinations thereof. In some instances, the panel further comprises one or more additional variants defining a minor allele listed in Table 4. In some cases, variants of the disclosure may include single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), insertion deletion polymorphisms (indels), damaging mutation variants, loss of function variants, synonymous mutation variants, nonsynonymous mutation variants, nonsense mutations, recessive markers, splicing/splice-site variants, frameshift mutation, insertions, deletions, genomic rearrangements, stop-gain, stop-loss, Rare Variants (RVs), translocations, inversions, and substitutions. Variants for example SNPs are usually preceded and followed by highly conserved sequences that vary in less than 1/100 or 1/1000 members of the population. An individual may be homozygous or heterozygous for an allele at each SNP position. A SNP may, in some instances, be referred to as a “cSNP” to denote that the nucleotide sequence containing the SNP is an amino acid “coding” sequence. A SNP may arise from a substitution of one nucleotide for another at the polymorphic site. Substitutions can be transitions or transversions. A transition is the replacement of one purine nucleotide by another purine nucleotide, or one pyrimidine by another pyrimidine. A transversion is the replacement of a purine by a pyrimidine, or vice versa. A synonymous codon change, or silent mutation is one that does not result in a change of amino acid due to the degeneracy of the genetic code. A substitution that changes a codon coding for one amino acid to a codon coding for a different amino acid (i.e., a non-synonymous codon change) is referred to as a missense mutation. A nonsense mutation results in a type of non-synonymous codon change in which a stop codon is formed, thereby leading to premature termination of a polypeptide chain and a truncated protein. A read-through mutation is another type of non-synonymous codon change that causes the destruction of a stop codon, thereby resulting in an extended polypeptide product. An indel that occur in a coding DNA segment gives rise to a frameshift mutation. Causative variants are those that produce alterations in gene expression or in the structure and/or function of a gene product, and therefore are predictive of a possible clinical phenotype. One such class includes SNPs falling within regions of genes encoding a polypeptide product, i.e. cSNPs. These SNPs may result in an alteration of the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide product (i.e., non-synonymous codon changes) and give rise to the expression of a defective or other variant protein. Furthermore, in the case of nonsense mutations, a SNP may lead to premature termination of a polypeptide product. Such variant products can result in a pathological condition, e.g., genetic endometriosis. An association study of a variant and a specific disorder involves determining the presence or frequency of the variant allele in biological samples from individuals with the disorder of interest, such as endometriosis, and comparing the information to that of controls (i.e., individuals who do not have the disorder; controls may be also referred to as “healthy” or “normal” individuals) who are for example of similar age and race. The appropriate selection of patients and controls is important to the success of variant association studies. Therefore, a pool of individuals with well-characterized phenotypes is extremely desirable. A variant may be screened in tissue samples or any biological sample obtained from an affected individual, and compared to control samples, and selected for its increased (or decreased) occurrence in a specific pathological condition, such as pathologies related to endometriosis. Once a statistically significant association is established between one or more variant(s) and a pathological condition (or other phenotype) of interest, then the region around the variant can optionally be thoroughly screened to identify the causative genetic locus/sequence(s) (e.g., causative variant/mutation, gene, regulatory region, etc.) that influences the pathological condition or phenotype. Association studies may be conducted within the general population and are not limited to studies performed on related individuals in affected families (linkage studies). For diagnostic and prognostic purposes, if a particular variant site is found to be useful for diagnosing a disease, such as endometriosis, other variant sites which are in LD with this variant site would also be expected to be useful for diagnosing the condition. Linkage disequilibrium is described in the human genome as blocks of variants along a chromosome segment that do not segregate independently (i.e., that are non-randomly co-inherited). The starting (5′ end) and ending (3′ end) of these blocks can vary depending on the criteria used for linkage disequilibrium in a given database, such as the value of D′ or r2 used to determine linkage disequilibrium. In some instances, variants can be identified in a study using a whole-genome case-control approach to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms that were closely associated with the development of endometriosis, as well as variants found to be in linkage disequilibrium with (i.e., within the same linkage disequilibrium block as) the endometriosis-associated variants, which can provide haplotypes (i.e., groups of variants that are co-inherited) to be readily inferred. Thus, the disclosure provides individual variants associated with endometriosis, as well as combinations of variants and haplotypes in genetic regions associated with endometriosis, methods of detecting these polymorphisms in a test sample, methods of determining the risk of an individual of having or developing endometriosis and for clinical sub-classification of endometriosis. In some cases, the disclosure provides variants associated with endometriosis, as well as variants that were previously known in the art, but were not previously known to be associated with endometriosis. Accordingly, the disclosure provides novel compositions and methods based on the variants disclosed herein, and also provides novel methods of using the known but previously unassociated variants in methods relating to endometriosis (e.g., for diagnosing endometriosis. etc.). In some instances, particular variant alleles of the disclosure can be associated with either an increased risk of having or developing endometriosis, or a decreased risk of having or developing endometriosis. Variant alleles that are associated with a decreased risk may be referred to as “protective” alleles, and variant alleles that are associated with an increased risk may be referred to as “susceptibility” alleles, “risk factors”, or “high-risk” alleles. Thus, whereas certain variants can be assayed to determine whether an individual possesses a variant allele that is indicative of an increased risk of having or developing endometriosis (i.e., a susceptibility allele), other variants can be assayed to determine whether an individual possesses a variant allele that is indicative of a decreased risk of having or developing endometriosis (i.e., a protective allele). Similarly, particular variant alleles of the disclosure can be associated with either an increased or decreased likelihood of responding to a particular treatment. The term “altered” may be used herein to encompass either of these two possibilities (e.g., an increased or a decreased risk/likelihood). In some instances, nucleic acid molecules may be double-stranded molecules and that reference to a particular site on one strand refers, as well, to the corresponding site on a complementary strand. In defining a variant position, variant allele, or nucleotide sequence, reference to an adenine, a thymine (uridine), a cytosine, or a guanine at a particular site on one strand of a nucleic acid molecule also defines the complementary thymine (uridine), adenine, guanine, or cytosine (respectively) at the corresponding site on a complementary strand of the nucleic acid molecule. Thus, reference may be made to either strand in order to refer to a particular variant position, variant allele, or nucleotide sequence. Probes and primers may be designed to hybridize to either strand and variant genotyping methods disclosed herein may generally target either strand. Throughout the specification, in identifying a variant position, reference is generally made to the forward or “sense” strand, solely for the purpose of convenience. Since endogenous nucleic acid sequences exist in the form of a double helix (a duplex comprising two complementary nucleic acid strands), it is understood that the variants disclosed herein will have counterpart nucleic acid sequences and variants associated with the complementary “reverse” or “antisense” nucleic acid strand. Such complementary nucleic acid sequences, and the complementary variants present in those sequences, are also included within the scope of the disclosure. Disclosed herein are methods for detecting genetic variants in a nucleic acid sample. The method can comprise sequencing a nucleic acid sample obtained from a subject having endometriosis or suspected of having endometriosis using a high throughput method. The high throughput method can comprise nanopore sequencing. The method can comprise detecting one or more genetic variants in a nucleic acid sample, wherein the one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 1, Table 2 or Table 3. The nucleic acid sample can comprise RNA. The RNA can comprise mRNA. The nucleic acid sample can comprise DNA. The DNA can comprise cDNA, genomic DNA, sheared DNA, cell free DNA, fragmented DNA, or PCR amplified products produced therefrom, or any combination thereof. The one or more genetic variants can comprise a genetic variant defining a minor allele. The one or more genetic variants can comprise at least about: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 500, or more genetic variants defining minor alleles. The detection of the one or more genetic variants can have an odds ratio (OR) for endometriosis of at least about: 1.5, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, or more. The one or more genetic variants can comprise a synonymous mutation, a non-synonymous mutation, a stop-gain mutation, a nonsense mutation, an insertion, a deletion, a splice-site variant, a frameshift mutation, or any combination thereof. The one or more genetic variants can comprise a protein damaging mutation. The one or more genetic variants can comprise a protein damaging or loss of function variant in one or more genes selected from the group consisting of GAT2, CCDC169, CASP8AP2, POU2F3, CD19, IGSF3, GLI3, PEX26, OLIG3, CIB4, NKX3-2, CFTR, and any combinations thereof. The one or more genetic variants can be comprised in GAT2, CCDC169, CASP8AP2, POU2F3, CD19, IGSF3, GLI3, PEX26, OLIG3, CIB4, NKX3-2, CFTR or a combination thereof. The method can comprise detecting one or more additional variants defining a minor allele listed in Table 4. The one or more genetic variants can be identified based on a predictive computer algorithm. The one or more genetic variants can be identified based on reference to a database. The method can further comprise identifying a subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis. The method can comprise identifying a subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis with a specificity of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. The method can comprise identifying a subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis with a sensitivity of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. The method can comprise identifying a subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis with an accuracy of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. The method can comprise identifying a subject as having endometriosis. The subject can be asymptomatic for endometriosis. In some cases, the subject can have endometriosis and be asymptomatic. The subject can be symptomatic for endometriosis. The subject can be identified as being at risk of developing endometriosis. The method can further comprise administering a therapeutic to a subject. The therapeutic can comprise hormonal therapy, an advanced reproductive technology therapy, a pain managing medication, or any combination thereof. The therapeutic can comprise hormonal contraceptives, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) agonists, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) antagonists, progestin, danazol, or any combination thereof. The therapeutic can comprise a pain medication. The pain medication can comprise a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), ibuprofen, naproxen, an opioid, a cannabis-based therapeutic, or any combination thereof. In some cases, the one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 1. In some cases, the one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 2. In some cases, the one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 3. The method can further comprise identifying a subject as having endometriosis-associated infertility or being at risk of developing endometriosis-associated infertility. The method can further comprise administering assisted reproductive technology therapy to a subject. The assisted reproductive technology therapy can comprise in vitro fertilization, gamete intrafallopian transfer, or any combination thereof. The method can further comprise administering, intrauterine insemination or ovulation induction. A subject described herein can be a mammal. The mammal can be a human. Nanopore sequencing can be performed with a biological nanopore, a solid state nanopore, or a hybrid nanopore. Methods disclosed herein can detect 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 50, 60, 100, 80, 90, 100, 200 or more variants disclosed herein. Genetic variants detected herein can indicate endometriosis or a risk of developing endometriosis. In some embodiments, one or more genetic variant listed in Table 1 are the only genetic variants detected. In some embodiments, one or more genetic variants listed in Table 2 are the only genetic variant detected. In some embodiments, one or more genetic variants listed in Table 3 are the only genetic variant detected. In some embodiments, one or more genetic variant listed in Table 4 are the only genetic variant detected. In other embodiments, one or more genetic variants are detected from two or more of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3 and Table 4. Genotyping Methods In some cases, the process of determining which specific nucleotide (i.e., allele) is present at each of one or more variant positions, such as a variant position in a nucleic acid molecule characterized by a variant, is referred to as variant genotyping. The disclosure provides methods of variant genotyping, such as for use in screening for endometriosis or related pathologies, or determining predisposition thereto, or determining responsiveness to a form of treatment, or in genome mapping or variant association analysis, etc. Nucleic acid samples can be genotyped to determine which allele(s) is/are present at any given genetic region (e.g., variant position) of interest by methods well known in the art. The neighboring sequence can be used to design variant detection reagents such as oligonucleotide probes, which may optionally be implemented in a kit format. Common variant genotyping methods include, but are not limited to, TaqMan assays, molecular beacon assays, nucleic acid arrays, allele-specific primer extension, allele-specific PCR, arrayed primer extension, homogeneous primer extension assays, primer extension with detection by mass spectrometry, mass spectrometry with or with monoisotopic dNTPs (pyrosequencing, multiplex primer extension sorted on genetic arrays, ligation with rolling circle amplification, homogeneous ligation, OLA, multiplex ligation reaction sorted on genetic arrays, restriction-fragment length polymorphism, single base extension-tag assays, and the Invader assay. Such methods may be used in combination with detection mechanisms such as, for example, luminescence or chemiluminescence detection, fluorescence detection, time-resolved fluorescence detection, fluorescence resonance energy transfer, fluorescence polarization, mass spectrometry, electrospray mass spectrometry, and electrical detection. Various methods for detecting polymorphisms can include, but are not limited to, methods in which protection from cleavage agents is used to detect mismatched bases in RNA/RNA or RNA/DNA duplexes, comparison of the electrophoretic mobility of variant and wild type nucleic acid molecules, and assaying the movement of polymorphic or wild-type fragments in polyacrylamide gels containing a gradient of denaturant using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Sequence variations at specific locations can also be assessed by nuclease protection assays such as RNase and SI protection or chemical cleavage methods. In some instances, a variant genotyping can be performed using the TaqMan assay, which is also known as the 5′ nuclease assay. The TaqMan assay detects the accumulation of a specific amplified product during PCR. The TaqMan assay utilizes an oligonucleotide probe labeled with a fluorescent reporter dye and a quencher dye. The reporter dye is excited by irradiation at an appropriate wavelength, it transfers energy to the quencher dye in the same probe via a process called fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). When attached to the probe, the excited reporter dye does not emit a signal. The proximity of the quencher dye to the reporter dye in the intact probe maintains a reduced fluorescence for the reporter. The reporter dye and quencher dye may be at the 5′ most and the 3′ most ends, respectively, or vice versa. Alternatively, the reporter dye may be at the 5′ or 3′ most end while the quencher dye is attached to an internal nucleotide, or vice versa. In yet another embodiment, both the reporter and the quencher may be attached to internal nucleotides at a distance from each other such that fluorescence of the reporter is reduced. During PCR, the 5′ nuclease activity of DNA polymerase cleaves the probe, thereby separating the reporter dye and the quencher dye and resulting in increased fluorescence of the reporter. Accumulation of PCR product is detected directly by monitoring the increase in fluorescence of the reporter dye. The DNA polymerase cleaves the probe between the reporter dye and the quencher dye only if the probe hybridizes to the target variant-containing template which is amplified during PCR, and the probe is designed to hybridize to the target variant site only if a particular variant allele is present. TaqMan primer and probe sequences can readily be determined using the variant and associated nucleic acid sequence information provided herein. A number of computer programs, such as Primer Express (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.), can be used to rapidly obtain optimal primer/probe sets. It will be apparent to one of skill in the art that such primers and probes for detecting the variants of the disclosure are useful in diagnostic assays for endometriosis and related pathologies, and can be readily incorporated into a kit format. The disclosure also includes modifications of the Taqman assay well known in the art such as the use of Molecular Beacon probes and other variant formats. In some instances, a method for genotyping the variants can be the use of two oligonucleotide probes in an OLA. In this method, one probe hybridizes to a segment of a target nucleic acid with its 3′ most end aligned with the variant site. A second probe hybridizes to an adjacent segment of the target nucleic acid molecule directly 3′ to the first probe. The two juxtaposed probes hybridize to the target nucleic acid molecule, and are ligated in the presence of a linking agent such as a ligase if there is perfect complementarity between the 3′ most nucleotide of the first probe with the variant site. If there is a mismatch, ligation would not occur. After the reaction, the ligated probes are separated from the target nucleic acid molecule, and detected as indicators of the presence of a variant. In some instances, a method for variant genotyping is based on mass spectrometry. Mass spectrometry takes advantage of the unique mass of each of the four nucleotides of DNA. variants can be unambiguously genotyped by mass spectrometry by measuring the differences in the mass of nucleic acids having alternative variant alleles. MALDI-TOF (Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization-Time of Flight) mass spectrometry technology is exemplary for extremely precise determinations of molecular mass, such as variants. Numerous approaches to variant analysis have been developed based on mass spectrometry. Exemplary mass spectrometry-based methods of variant genotyping include primer extension assays, which can also be utilized in combination with other approaches, such as traditional gel-based formats and microarrays. In some instances, a method for genotyping the variants of the disclosure is the use of electrospray mass spectrometry for direct analysis of an amplified nucleic acid. In this method, in one aspect, an amplified nucleic acid product may be isotopically enriched in an isotope of oxygen (O), carbon (C), nitrogen (N) or any combination of those elements. In an exemplary embodiment the amplified nucleic acid is isotopically enriched to a level of greater than 99.9% in the elements of O16, C12 and N14 The amplified isotopically enriched product can then be analyzed by electrospray mass spectrometry to determine the nucleic acid composition and the corresponding variant genotyping. Isotopically enriched amplified products result in a corresponding increase in sensitivity and accuracy in the mass spectrum. In another aspect of this method an amplified nucleic acid that is not isotopically enriched can also have composition and variant genotype determined by electrospray mass spectrometry. In some instances, variants can be scored by direct DNA sequencing. The nucleic acid sequences of the disclosure enable one of ordinary skill in the art to readily design sequencing primers for such automated sequencing procedures. Commercial instrumentation, such as the Applied Biosystems 377, 3100, 3700, 3730, and 3730.times.1 DNA Analyzers (Foster City, Calif.), is commonly used in the art for automated sequencing. Variant genotyping can include the steps of, for example, collecting a biological sample from a human subject (e.g., sample of tissues, cells, fluids, secretions, etc.), isolating nucleic acids (e.g., genomic DNA, mRNA or both) from the cells of the sample, contacting the nucleic acids with one or more primers which specifically hybridize to a region of the isolated nucleic acid containing a target variant under conditions such that hybridization and amplification of the target nucleic acid region occurs, and determining the nucleotide present at the variant position of interest, or, in some assays, detecting the presence or absence of an amplification product (assays can be designed so that hybridization and/or amplification will only occur if a particular variant allele is present or absent). In some assays, the size of the amplification product is detected and compared to the length of a control sample; for example, deletions and insertions can be detected by a change in size of the amplified product compared to a normal genotype. In some instances, a variant genotyping can be used in applications that include, but are not limited to, variant-endometriosis association analysis, endometriosis predisposition screening, endometriosis diagnosis, endometriosis prognosis, endometriosis progression monitoring, determining therapeutic strategies based on an individual's genotype, and stratifying a patient population for clinical trials for a treatment such as minimally invasive device for the treatment of endometriosis. Analysis of Genetic Association Between Variants and Phenotypic Traits In some cases, genotyping for endometriosis diagnosis, endometriosis predisposition screening, endometriosis prognosis and endometriosis treatment and other uses described herein, can rely on initially establishing a genetic association between one or more specific variants and the particular phenotypic traits of interest. In some instances, in a genetic association study, the cause of interest to be tested is a certain allele or a variant or a combination of alleles or a haplotype from several variants. Thus, tissue specimens (e.g., saliva) from the sampled individuals may be collected and genomic DNA genotyped for the variant(s) of interest. In addition to the phenotypic trait of interest, other information such as demographic (e.g., age, gender, ethnicity, etc.), clinical, and environmental information that may influence the outcome of the trait can be collected to further characterize and define the sample set. Specifically, in an endometriosis genetic association study, clinical information such as body mass index, age and diet may be collected. In many cases, these factors are known to be associated with diseases and/or variant allele frequencies. There are likely gene-environment and/or gene-gene interactions as well. Analysis methods to address gene-environment and gene-gene interactions (for example, the effects of the presence of both susceptibility alleles at two different genes can be greater than the effects of the individual alleles at two genes combined) are discussed below. In some instances, after all the relevant phenotypic and genotypic information has been obtained, statistical analyses are carried out to determine if there is any significant correlation between the presence of an allele or a genotype with the phenotypic characteristics of an individual. For example, data inspection and cleaning are first performed before carrying out statistical tests for genetic association. Epidemiological and clinical data of the samples can be summarized by descriptive statistics with tables and graphs. Data validation is for example performed to check for data completion, inconsistent entries, and outliers. Chi-squared tests may then be used to check for significant differences between cases and controls for discrete and continuous variables, respectively. To ensure genotyping quality, Hardy-Weinberg disequilibrium tests can be performed on cases and controls separately. Significant deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) in both cases and controls for individual markers can be indicative of genotyping errors. If HWE is violated in a majority of markers, it is indicative of population substructure that should be further investigated. Moreover, Hardy-Weinberg disequilibrium in cases only can indicate genetic association of the markers with the disease of interest. In some instances, to test whether an allele of a single variant is associated with the case or control status of a phenotypic trait, one skilled in the art can compare allele frequencies in cases and controls. Standard chi-squared tests and Fisher exact tests can be carried out on a 2×2 table (2 variant alleles×2 outcomes in the categorical trait of interest). To test whether genotypes of a variant are associated, chi-squared tests can be carried out on a 3×2 table (3 genotypes×2 outcomes). Score tests are also carried out for genotypic association to contrast the three genotypic frequencies (major homozygotes, heterozygotes and minor homozygotes) in cases and controls, and to look for trends using 3 different modes of inheritance, namely dominant (with contrast coefficients 2, −1, −1), additive (with contrast coefficients 1, 0, −1) and recessive (with contrast coefficients 1, 1, −2). Odds ratios for minor versus major alleles, and odds ratios for heterozygote and homozygote variants versus the wild type genotypes are calculated with the desired confidence limits, usually 95%. In the present study a software algorithm, PLINK, has been applied to automate the calculation of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, chi-square, p-values and odds-ratios for very large numbers of variants and Case-Control individuals simultaneously. In some instances, in order to control for confounding effects and to test for interactions a stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis using statistical packages such as SAS or R may be performed. Logistic regression is a model-building technique in which the best fitting and most parsimonious model is built to describe the relation between the dichotomous outcome (for instance, getting a certain endometriosis or not) and a set of independent variables (for instance, genotypes of different associated genes, and the associated demographic and environmental factors). The most common model is one in which the logit transformation of the odds ratios is expressed as a linear combination of the variables (main effects) and their cross-product terms (interactions). To test whether a certain variable or interaction is significantly associated with the outcome, coefficients in the model are first estimated and then tested for statistical significance of their departure from zero. In some instances, in addition to performing association tests one marker at a time, haplotype association analysis may also be performed to study a number of markers that are closely linked together. Haplotype association tests can have better power than genotypic or allelic association tests when the tested markers are not the disease-causing mutations themselves but are in linkage disequilibrium with such mutations. The test will even be more powerful if the endometriosis is indeed caused by a combination of alleles on a haplotype. In order to perform haplotype association effectively, marker-marker linkage disequilibrium measures, both D′ and r2, are typically calculated for the markers within a gene to elucidate the haplotype structure. Variants within a gene can be organized in block pattern, and a high degree of linkage disequilibrium exists within blocks and very little linkage disequilibrium exists between blocks. Haplotype association with the endometriosis status can be performed using such blocks once they have been elucidated. Haplotype association tests can be carried out in a similar fashion as the allelic and genotypic association tests. Each haplotype in a gene is analogous to an allele in a multi-allelic marker. One skilled in the art can either compare the haplotype frequencies in cases and controls or test genetic association with different pairs of haplotypes. Score tests can be done on haplotypes using the program “haplo.score”. In that method, haplotypes are first inferred by EM algorithm and score tests are carried out with a generalized linear model (GLM) framework that allows the adjustment of other factors. In some instances, an important decision in the performance of genetic association tests is the determination of the significance level at which significant association can be declared when the p-value of the tests reaches that level. In an exploratory analysis where positive hits will be followed up in subsequent confirmatory testing, an unadjusted p-value<0.1 (a significance level on the lenient side) may be used for generating hypotheses for significant association of a variant with certain phenotypic characteristics of a endometriosis. It is exemplary that a p-value<0.05 (a significance level traditionally used in the art) is achieved in order for a variant to be considered to have an association with a endometriosis. It is more exemplary that a p-value<0.01 (a significance level on the stringent side) is achieved for an association to be declared. Permutation tests to control for the false discovery rates, FDR, can further be employed. Such methods to control for multiplicity would be exemplary when the tests are dependent and controlling for false discovery rates is sufficient as opposed to controlling for the experiment-wise error rates. In some instances, since both genotyping and endometriosis status classification can involve errors, sensitivity analyses may be performed to see how odds ratios and p-values would change upon various estimates on genotyping and endometriosis classification error rates. Once individual risk factors, genetic or non-genetic, have been found for the predisposition to endometriosis, the next step can be to set up a classification/prediction scheme to predict the category (for instance, endometriosis or no endometriosis) that an individual will be in depending on his genotypes of associated variants and other non-genetic risk factors. Logistic regression for discrete trait and linear regression for continuous trait are standard techniques for such tasks. Moreover, other techniques can also be used for setting up classification. Such techniques include, but are not limited to, MART, CART, neural network, and discriminant analyses that are suitable for use in comparing the performance of different methods. Endometriosis Diagnosis and Predisposition Screening In some cases, information on association/correlation between genotypes and endometriosis-related phenotypes can be exploited in several ways. For example, in the case of a highly statistically significant association between one or more variants with predisposition to a disease for which treatment is available, detection of such a genotype pattern in an individual may justify particular treatment, or at least the institution of regular monitoring of the individual. In the case of a weaker but still statistically significant association between a variant and a human disease, immediate therapeutic intervention or monitoring may not be justified after detecting the susceptibility allele or variant. The variants disclosed herein may contribute to endometriosis in an individual in different ways. Some polymorphisms occur within a protein coding sequence and contribute to endometriosis phenotype by affecting protein structure. Other polymorphisms occur in noncoding regions but may exert phenotypic effects indirectly via influence on, for example, replication, transcription, and/or translation. A single variant may affect more than one phenotypic trait. Likewise, a single phenotypic trait may be affected by multiple variants in different genes. The variants disclosed herein may contribute to endometriosis in an individual in different ways. Some polymorphisms occur within a protein coding sequence and contribute to endometriosis phenotype by affecting protein structure. Other polymorphisms occur in noncoding regions but may exert phenotypic effects indirectly via influence on, for example, replication, transcription, and/or translation. A single variant may affect more than one phenotypic trait. Likewise, a single phenotypic trait may be affected by multiple variants in different genes. Haplotypes can be particularly useful in that, for example, fewer variants can be genotyped to determine if a particular genomic region harbors a locus that influences a particular phenotype, such as in linkage disequilibrium-based variant association analysis. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) can refer to the co-inheritance of alleles (e.g., alternative nucleotides) at two or more different variant sites at frequencies greater than would be expected from the separate frequencies of occurrence of each allele in a given population. The expected frequency of co-occurrence of two alleles that are inherited independently is the frequency of the first allele multiplied by the frequency of the second allele. Alleles that co-occur at expected frequencies are said to be in “linkage equilibrium”. In contrast, LD can refer to any non-random genetic association between allele(s) at two or more different variant sites, which is generally due to the physical proximity of the two loci along a chromosome. LD can occur when two or more variants sites are in close physical proximity to each other on a given chromosome and therefore alleles at these variant sites will tend to remain unseparated for multiple generations with the consequence that a particular nucleotide (allele) at one variant site will show a non-random association with a particular nucleotide (allele) at a different variant site located nearby. Hence, genotyping one of the variant sites will give almost the same information as genotyping the other variant site that is in LD. For diagnostic purposes, if a particular variant site is found to be useful for diagnosing endometriosis, then the skilled artisan would recognize that other variant sites which are in LD with this variant site would also be useful for diagnosing the condition. Various degrees of LD can be encountered between two or more variants with the result being that some variants are more closely associated (i.e., in stronger LD) than others. Furthermore, the physical distance over which LD extends along a chromosome differs between different regions of the genome, and therefore the degree of physical separation between two or more variant sites necessary for LD to occur can differ between different regions of the genome. For diagnostic applications, polymorphisms (e.g., variants and/or haplotypes) that are not the actual disease-causing (causative) polymorphisms, but are in LD with such causative polymorphisms, are also useful. In such instances, the genotype of the polymorphism(s) that is/are in LD with the causative polymorphism is predictive of the genotype of the causative polymorphism and, consequently, predictive of the phenotype (e.g., endometriosis) that is influenced by the causative variant(s). Thus, polymorphic markers that are in LD with causative polymorphisms are useful as diagnostic markers, and are particularly useful when the actual causative polymorphism(s) is/are unknown. The contribution or association of particular variants and/or variant haplotypes with endometriosis phenotypes, such as endometriosis, can enable the variants of the disclosure to be used to develop superior diagnostic tests capable of identifying individuals who express a detectable trait, such as endometriosis. as the result of a specific genotype, or individuals whose genotype places them at an increased or decreased risk of developing a detectable trait at a subsequent time as compared to individuals who do not have that genotype. As described herein, diagnostics may be based on a single variant or a group of variants. In some instances, combined detection of a plurality of variations, for example about 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 25, 30, 32, 35, 40, 45, 48, 50, 55, 60, 64, 70, 75, 80, 85, 80, 96, 100, or any other number in-between, or more, of the variants provided herein can increase the probability of an accurate diagnosis. To further increase the accuracy of diagnosis or predisposition screening, analysis of the variants of the disclosure can be combined with that of other polymorphisms or other risk factors of endometriosis, such as gender and age. In some instances, the method herein can indicate a certain increased (or decreased) degree or likelihood of developing the endometriosis based on statistically significant association results. This information can be valuable to initiate earlier preventive treatments or to allow an individual carrying one or more significant variants or variant haplotypes to regularly scheduled physical exams to monitor for the appearance or change of their endometriosis in order to identify and begin treatment of the endometriosis at an early stage. The diagnostic techniques herein may employ a variety of methodologies to determine whether a test subject has a variant or a variant pattern associated with an increased or decreased risk of developing a detectable trait or whether the individual suffers from a detectable trait as a result of a particular polymorphism/mutation, including, for example, methods which enable the analysis of individual chromosomes for haplotyping, family studies, single sperm DNA analysis, or somatic hybrids. The trait analyzed using the diagnostics of the disclosure may be any detectable trait that is commonly observed in pathologies and disorders related to endometriosis. Another aspect of the disclosure relates to a method of determining whether an individual is at risk (or less at risk) of developing one or more traits or whether an individual expresses one or more traits as a consequence of possessing a particular trait-causing or trait-influencing allele. These methods generally involve obtaining a nucleic acid sample from an individual and assaying the nucleic acid sample to determine which nucleotide(s) is/are present at one or more variant positions, wherein the assayed nucleotide(s) is/are indicative of an increased or decreased risk of developing the trait or indicative that the individual expresses the trait as a result of possessing a particular trait-causing or trait-influencing allele. The variants herein can be used to identify novel therapeutic targets for endometriosis. For example, genes containing the disease-associated variants (“variant genes”) or their products, as well as genes or their products that are directly or indirectly regulated by or interacting with these variant genes or their products, can be targeted for the development of therapeutics that, for example, treat the endometriosis or prevent or delay endometriosis onset. The therapeutics may be composed of, for example, small molecules, proteins, protein fragments or peptides, antibodies, nucleic acids, or their derivatives or mimetics which modulate the functions or levels of the target genes or gene products. The variants/haplotypes herein can be useful for improving many different aspects of the drug development process. For example, individuals can be selected for clinical trials based on their variant genotype. Individuals with variant genotypes that indicate that they are most likely to respond to or most likely to benefit from a device or a drug can be included in the trials and those individuals whose variant genotypes indicate that they are less likely to or would not respond to a device or a drug, or suffer adverse reactions, can be eliminated from the clinical trials. This not only improves the safety of clinical trials, but also will enhance the chances that the trial will demonstrate statistically significant efficacy. Furthermore, the variants of the disclosure may explain why certain previously developed devices or drugs performed poorly in clinical trials and may help identify a subset of the population that would benefit from a drug that had previously performed poorly in clinical trials, thereby “rescuing” previously developed therapeutic treatment methods or drugs, and enabling the methods or drug to be made available to a particular endometriosis patient population that can benefit from it. Detection Kits and Systems In some instances, based on a variant such as SNP or indels and associated sequence information disclosed herein, detection reagents can be developed and used to assay any variant of the disclosure individually or in combination, and such detection reagents can be readily incorporated into one of the established kit or system formats which are well known in the art. The terms “kits” and “systems” can refer to such things as combinations of multiple variant detection reagents, or one or more variant detection reagents in combination with one or more other types of elements or components (e.g., other types of biochemical reagents, containers, packages such as packaging intended for commercial sale, substrates to which variant detection reagents are attached, electronic hardware components, etc.). Accordingly, the disclosure further provides variant detection kits and systems, including but not limited to, packaged probe and primer sets (e.g., TaqMan probe/primer sets), arrays/microarrays of nucleic acid molecules, and beads that contain one or more probes, primers, or other detection reagents for detecting one or more variants of the disclosure. The kits/systems can optionally include various electronic hardware components; for example, arrays (“DNA chips”) and microfluidic systems (“lab-on-a-chip” systems) provided by various manufacturers typically comprise hardware components. Other kits/systems (e.g., probe/primer sets) may not include electronic hardware components, but may be comprised of, for example, one or more variant detection reagents (along with, optionally, other biochemical reagents) packaged in one or more containers. In some instances, provided herein is a kit comprising one or more variant detection agents, and methods for detecting the variants disclosed herein by employing detection reagents and optionally a questionnaire of non-genetic clinical factors. In some instances, provided herein is a method of identifying an individual having an increased or decreased risk of developing endometriosis by detecting the presence or absence of a variant allele disclosed herein. In some instances, provided herein is a method for diagnosis of endometriosis by detecting the presence or absence of a variant allele disclosed herein is provided. In some instances, provided herein is a method for predicting endometriosis sub-classification by detecting the presence or absence of a variant allele. In some instances, the questionnaire would be completed by a medical professional based on medical history physical exam or other clinical findings. In some instances, the questionnaire would include any other non-genetic clinical factors known to be associated with the risk of developing endometriosis. In some instances, a reagent for detecting a variant in the context of its naturally-occurring flanking nucleotide sequences (which can be, e.g., either DNA or mRNA) is provided. In some instances, the reagent may be in the form of a hybridization probe or an amplification primer that is useful in the specific detection of a variant of interest. In some instances, a variant can be a genetic polymorphism having a Minor Allele Frequency (MAF) of at least 1% in a population (such as for instance the Caucasian population or the CEU population) and an RV is understood to be a genetic polymorphism having a Minor Allele Frequency (MAF) of less than 1% in a population (such as for instance the Caucasian population or the CEU population). In some instances, a detection kit can contain one or more detection reagents and other components (e.g., a buffer, enzymes such as DNA polymerases or ligases, chain extension nucleotides such as deoxynucleotide triphosphates, and in the case of Sanger-type DNA sequencing reactions, chain terminating nucleotides, positive control sequences, negative control sequences, and the like) necessary to carry out an assay or reaction, such as amplification and/or detection of a variant-containing nucleic acid molecule. A kit may further contain means for determining the amount of a target nucleic acid, and means for comparing the amount with a standard, and can comprise instructions for using the kit to detect the variant-containing nucleic acid molecule of interest. In one embodiment of the disclosure, kits are provided which contain the necessary reagents to carry out one or more assays to detect one or more variants disclosed herein. In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure, the detection kits/systems can be in the form of nucleic acid arrays, or compartmentalized kits, including microfluidic/lab-on-a-chip systems. In some instances, variant detection kits/systems may contain, for example, one or more probes, or pairs of probes, that hybridize to a nucleic acid molecule at or near each target variant position. Multiple pairs of allele-specific probes may be included in the kit/system to simultaneously assay large numbers of variants, at least one of which is a variant of the disclosure. In some kits/systems, the allele-specific probes are immobilized to a substrate such as an array or bead. For example, the same substrate can comprise allele-specific probes for detecting at least 1; 10; 100; 1000; 10,000; 100,000; 500,000 (or any other number in-between) or substantially all of the variants disclosed herein. The terms “arrays,” “microarrays,” and “DNA chips” are used herein interchangeably to refer to an array of distinct polynucleotides affixed to a substrate, such as glass, plastic, paper, nylon or other type of membrane, filter, chip, or any other suitable solid support. The polynucleotides can be synthesized directly on the substrate, or synthesized separate from the substrate and then affixed to the substrate. In some instances, any number of probes, such as allele-specific probes, may be implemented in an array, and each probe or pair of probes can hybridize to a different variant position. In the case of polynucleotide probes, they can be synthesized at designated areas (or synthesized separately and then affixed to designated areas) on a substrate using a light-directed chemical process. Each DNA chip can contain, for example, thousands to millions of individual synthetic polynucleotide probes arranged in a grid-like pattern and miniaturized (e.g., to the size of a dime). For example, probes are attached to a solid support in an ordered, addressable array. In some instances, a microarray can be composed of a large number of unique, single-stranded polynucleotides fixed to a solid support. Typical polynucleotides are for example about 6-60 nucleotides in length, more for example about 15-30 nucleotides in length, and most for example about 18-25 nucleotides in length. For certain types of microarrays or other detection kits/systems, it may be suitable to use oligonucleotides that are only about 7-20 nucleotides in length. In other types of arrays, such as arrays used in conjunction with chemiluminescent detection technology, exemplary probe lengths can be, for example, about 15-80 nucleotides in length, for example about 50-70 nucleotides in length, more for example about 55-65 nucleotides in length, and most for example about 60 nucleotides in length. The microarray or detection kit can contain polynucleotides that cover the known 5′ or 3′ sequence of the target variant site, sequential polynucleotides that cover the full-length sequence of a gene/transcript; or unique polynucleotides selected from particular areas along the length of a target gene/transcript sequence, particularly areas corresponding to one or more variants disclosed herein. Polynucleotides used in the microarray or detection kit can be specific to a variant or variants of interest (e.g., specific to a particular SNP allele at a target SNP site, or specific to particular SNP alleles at multiple different SNP sites), or specific to a polymorphic gene/transcript or genes/transcripts of interest. In some instances, hybridization assays based on polynucleotide arrays rely on the differences in hybridization stability of the probes to perfectly matched and mismatched target sequence variants. For variant genotyping, it is generally suitable that stringency conditions used in hybridization assays are high enough such that nucleic acid molecules that differ from one another at as little as a single variant position can be differentiated (e.g., typical variant hybridization assays are designed so that hybridization will occur only if one particular nucleotide is present at a variant position, but will not occur if an alternative nucleotide is present at that variant position). Such high stringency conditions may be suitable when using, for example, nucleic acid arrays of allele-specific probes for variant detection. In some instances, the arrays are used in conjunction with chemiluminescent detection technology. In some instances, a nucleic acid array can comprise an array of probes of about 15-25 nucleotides in length. In further embodiments, a nucleic acid array can comprise any number of probes, in which at least one probe is capable of detecting one or more variants disclosed herein and/or at least one probe comprises a fragment of one of the sequences selected from the group consisting of those disclosed herein, and sequences complementary thereto, said fragment comprising at least about 8 consecutive nucleotides, for example 10, 12, 15, 16, 18, 20, more for example 22, 25, 30, 40, 47, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 80, 90, 100, or more consecutive nucleotides (or any other number in-between) and containing (or being complementary to) a variant. In some embodiments, the nucleotide complementary to the variant site is within 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1 nucleotide from the center of the probe, more for example at the center of said probe. In some instances, using such arrays or other kits/systems, the disclosure provides methods of identifying the variants disclosed herein in a test sample. Such methods typically involve incubating a test sample of nucleic acids with an array comprising one or more probes corresponding to at least one variant position of the disclosure, and assaying for binding of a nucleic acid from the test sample with one or more of the probes. Conditions for incubating a variant detection reagent (or a kit/system that employs one or more such variant detection reagents) with a test sample vary. Incubation conditions depend on such factors as the format employed in the assay, the detection methods employed, and the type and nature of the detection reagents used in the assay. One skilled in the art will recognize that any one of the commonly available hybridization, amplification and array assay formats can readily be adapted to detect the variants disclosed herein. In some instances, a detection kit/system may include components that are used to prepare nucleic acids from a test sample for the subsequent amplification and/or detection of a variant-containing nucleic acid molecule. Such sample preparation components can be used to produce nucleic acid extracts, including DNA and/or RNA, extracts from any bodily fluids. In an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure, the bodily fluid is blood, saliva or buccal swabs. The test samples used in the above-described methods will vary based on such factors as the assay format, nature of the detection method, and the specific tissues, cells or extracts used as the test sample to be assayed. Methods of preparing nucleic acids are well known in the art and can be readily adapted to obtain a sample that is compatible with the system utilized. In some instances, in addition to reagents for preparation of nucleic acids and reagents for detection of one of the variants of this disclosure, the kit may include a questionnaire inquiring about non-genetic clinical factors such as age, gender, or any other non-genetic clinical factors known to be associated with endometriosis. In some instances, a form of kit can be a compartmentalized kit. A compartmentalized kit includes any kit in which reagents are contained in separate containers. Such containers include, for example, small glass containers, plastic containers, strips of plastic, glass or paper, or arraying material such as silica. Such containers allow one to efficiently transfer reagents from one compartment to another compartment such that the test samples and reagents are not cross-contaminated, or from one container to another vessel not included in the kit, and the agents or solutions of each container can be added in a quantitative fashion from one compartment to another or to another vessel. Such containers may include, for example, one or more containers which will accept the test sample, one or more containers which contain at least one probe or other variant detection reagent for detecting one or more variants of the disclosure, one or more containers which contain wash reagents (such as phosphate buffered saline, Tris-buffers, etc.), and one or more containers which contain the reagents used to reveal the presence of the bound probe or other variant detection reagents. The kit can optionally further comprise compartments and/or reagents for, for example, nucleic acid amplification or other enzymatic reactions such as primer extension reactions, hybridization, ligation, electrophoresis (for example capillary electrophoresis), mass spectrometry, and/or laser-induced fluorescent detection. The kit may also include instructions for using the kit. In such microfluidic devices, the containers may be referred to as, for example, microfluidic “compartments”, “chambers”, or “channels”. In some instances, microfluidic devices, which may also be referred to as “lab-on-a-chip” systems, biomedical micro-electro-mechanical systems (bioMEMs), or multicomponent integrated systems, are exemplary kits/systems of the disclosure for analyzing variants. Such systems miniaturize and compartmentalize processes such as probe/target hybridization, nucleic acid amplification, and capillary electrophoresis reactions in a single functional device. Such microfluidic devices typically utilize detection reagents in at least one aspect of the system, and such detection reagents may be used to detect one or more variants of the disclosure. One example of a microfluidic system is the integration of PCR amplification and capillary electrophoresis in chips. Exemplary microfluidic systems comprise a pattern of microchannels designed onto a glass, silicon, quartz, or plastic wafer included on a microchip. The movements of the samples may be controlled by electric, electroosmotic or hydrostatic forces applied across different areas of the microchip to create functional microscopic valves and pumps with no moving parts. Varying the voltage can be used as a means to control the liquid flow at intersections between the micro-machined channels and to change the liquid flow rate for pumping across different sections of the microchip. In some instances, for genotyping variants, a microfluidic system may integrate, for example, nucleic acid amplification, primer extension, capillary electrophoresis, and a detection method such as laser induced fluorescence detection. Detection Kits and Systems In some instances, based on a variant, detection reagents can be developed and used to assay any variant of the disclosure individually or in combination, and such detection reagents can be readily incorporated into one of the established kit or system formats which are well known in the art. The terms “kits” and “systems” can refer to such things as combinations of multiple variant detection reagents, or one or more variant detection reagents in combination with one or more other types of elements or components (e.g., other types of biochemical reagents, containers, packages such as packaging intended for commercial sale, substrates to which variant detection reagents are attached, electronic hardware components, etc.). Accordingly, the disclosure further provides variant detection kits and systems, including but not limited to, packaged probe and primer sets (e.g., TaqMan probe/primer sets), arrays/microarrays of nucleic acid molecules, and beads that contain one or more probes, primers, or other detection reagents for detecting one or more variants of the disclosure. The kits/systems can optionally include various electronic hardware components; for example, arrays (“DNA chips”) and microfluidic systems (“lab-on-a-chip” systems) provided by various manufacturers may comprise hardware components. Other kits/systems (e.g., probe/primer sets) may not include electronic hardware components, but may be comprised of, for example, one or more variant detection reagents (along with, optionally, other biochemical reagents) packaged in one or more containers. Methods of Treatment In some aspects, disclosed herein is a method of treating a select subject in need thereof. The use of these genetic markers can allow selection of subjects for clinical trials involving novel treatment methods. In some cases, genetic markers disclosed herein can be used for early diagnosis and prognosis of endometriosis, as well as early clinical intervention to mitigate progression of the disease. In some instances, genetic markers disclosed herein can be used to predict endometriosis and endometriosis progression, for example in treatment decisions for individuals who are recognized as having endometriosis. In some cases, a treatment disclosed herein includes one or more of: reducing the frequency and/or severity of symptoms, elimination of symptoms and/or their underlying cause, and improvement or remediation of damage. For example, treatment of endometriosis includes, relieving the pain experienced by a woman suffering from endometriosis, and/or causing the regression or disappearance of endometriotic lesions. In some cases, the treatment can be an advanced reproductive technology therapy such as in vitro in fertilization (IVF); a hormonal treatment; progestogen; progestin; an oral contraceptive; a hormonal contraceptive; danocrine; gentrinone; a gonadotrophin releasing hormone agonist; Lupron; danazol; an aromatase inhibitor; pentoxifylline; surgical treatment; laparoscopy; cauterization; or cystectomy. In some instances, the progestogen can be progesterone, desogestrel, etonogestrel, gestodene, levonorgestrel, medroxyprogesterone, norethisterone, norgestimate, megestrol, megestrol acetate, norgestrel, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (e.g., acetate), or any combination thereof. In some instances, a therapeutic used herein is selected from progestins, estrogens, antiestrogens, and antiprogestins, for example micronized danazol in a micro- or nanoparticulate formulation. In some cases, a method of treatment disclosed herein comprises direct administration into or within an endometriotic lesion in a subject suffering from endometriosis of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutic disclosed herein. In some instances, the therapeutic is micronized in a suspension, e.g., non-oil based suspension. In some embodiments, the suspension comprises water, sodium sulfate, a quaternary ammonium wetting agent, glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, a hydrophilic colloid, or any combination thereof. The term “effective amount,” as used herein, can refer to a sufficient amount of a therapeutic being administered which relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms of the disease or condition being treated. The result can be reduction and/or alleviation of the signs, symptoms, or causes of a disease, or any other desired alteration of a biological system. A therapeutic can be administered for prophylactic, enhancing, and/or therapeutic treatments. An appropriate “effective” amount in any individual case can be determined using techniques, such as a dose escalation study. A treatment can comprise administering a therapeutic to a subject, intralesionally, transvaginally, intravenously, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, by inhalation, dermally, intra-articular injection, orally, intrathecally, transdermally, intranasally, via a peritoneal route, or directly onto or into a lesion/site, e.g., via endoscopically, open surgical administration, or injection route of application. In some instances, intralesional administration can mean administration into or within a pathological area. Administration can be effected by injection into a lesion and/or by instillation into a pre-existing cavity, such as in endometrioma. With reference to treatments for endometriosis provided herein, intralesional administration can refer to treatment within endometriotic tissue or a cyst formed by such tissue, such as by injection into a cyst. In some instances, intralesional administration can include administration into tissue in such close proximity to the endometriotic tissue such that the progestogen acts directly on the endometriotic tissue. In some instances, intralesional administration may or may not include administration to tissue remote from the endometriotic tissue that the progestogen acts on the endometriotic tissue through systemic circulation. In some instances, intralesional administration or delivery includes transvaginal, endoscopic or open surgical administration including, but are not limited to, via laparotomy. In some instances, transvaginal administration can refer to all procedures, including drug delivery, performed through the vagina, including intravaginal delivery and transvaginal sonography (ultrasonography through the vagina). In some instances, administration is by injection into the endometriotic tissue or into a cyst formed by such tissue; or into tissue immediately surrounding the endometriotic tissue in such proximity that the progestogen acts directly on the endometriotic tissue. In some embodiments, the tissue is visualized, for example laparoscopically or by ultrasound, and the progestogen is administered by intralesional (intracystic) injection by, for example direct visualization under ultrasound guidance or by any other suitable methods. A suitable amount of the therapeutic, e.g., progestrogen expressed in terms of progesterone of about 1-2 gm per lesion/cyst, can be applied. Precise quantity generally is determined on case to case basis, depending upon parameters, such as the size of the endometriotic tissue mass, the mode of the administration, and the number and time intervals between treatments. In some instances, methods herein can comprise intralesional delivery of the medicaments into the lesion. Intralesional delivery includes, for example, transvaginal, endoscopic or open surgical administration including via laparotomy. Delivery can be effected, for example, through a needle or needle like device by injection or a similar injectable or syringe-like device that can be delivered into the lesion, such as transvaginally, endoscopically or by open surgical administration including via laparotomy. In some embodiments, the method includes intravaginal and transvaginal delivery. For intravaginal/transvaginal delivery an ultrasound probe can be used to guide delivery of the needle from the vagina into lesions such as endometriomas and utero sacral nodules. Under ultrasound guidance the needle tip is placed in the lesion, the contents of the lesion aspirated if necessary and the formulation is injected into the lesion. In an exemplary delivery system a 17 to 20 gauge needle can be used for injection of the drug. Such system can be used for intralesional delivery including, but not limited to, transvaginal, endoscopic or open surgical administration including via laparotomy. For treatment of endometrioma 17 or 18 gauge needles are used under ultrasound guidance for aspiration of the thick contents of the lesion and delivery of the formulation. The length of the needle used depends on the depth of the lesion. Pre-loaded syringes and other administration systems, which obviate the need for reloading the drug can be used. In some cases, a therapeutic (e.g., an active agent) used herein can be a solution, a suspension, liquid, a paste, aqueous, non-aqueous fluid, semi-solids, colloid, gel, lotion, cream, solid (e.g., tablet, powder, pellet, particulate, capsule, packet), or any combination thereof. In some instances, a therapeutic disclosed herein is formulated as a dosage form of tablet, capsule, gel, lollipop, parenteral, intraspinal infusion, inhalation, spray, aerosol, transdermal patch, iontophoresis transport, absorbing gel, liquid, liquid tannate, suppositories, injection, I.V. drip, or a combination thereof to treat subjects. In some instances, the active agents are formulated as single oral dosage form such as a tablet, capsule, cachet, soft gelatin capsule, hard gelatin capsule, extended release capsule, tannate tablet, oral disintegrating tablet, multi-layer tablet, effervescent tablet, bead, liquid, oral suspension, chewable lozenge, oral solution, lozenge, lollipop, oral syrup, sterile packaged powder including pharmaceutically-acceptable excipients, other oral dosage forms, or a combination thereof. In some instances, a therapeutic of the disclosure herein can be administered using one or more different dosage forms which are further disclosed herein. In some instances, therapeutics disclosed herein are provided in modified release dosage forms (such as immediate release, controlled release, or both), The methods, compositions, and kits of this disclosure can comprise a method to prevent, treat, arrest, reverse, or ameliorate the symptoms of a condition of a subject, e.g., a patient. A subject can be, for example, an elderly adult, adult, adolescent, pre-adolescence, teenager, or child. A subject can be, for example, 10-50 years old, 10-40 years old, 10-30 years old, 10-25 years old, 10-21 years old, 10-18 years old, 10-16 years old, 18-25 years old, or 16-34 years old. The subject can be a female mammal, e.g., a female human being. In some instances, the human subject can be asymptomatic for endometriosis. Treatment can be provided to the subject before clinical onset of disease. Treatment can be provided to the subject after clinical onset of disease. Treatment can be provided to the subject after 1 day, 1 week, 6 months, 12 months, or 2 years or more after clinical onset of the disease. Treatment may be provided to the subject for more than 1 day, 1 week, 1 month, 6 months, 12 months, 2 years or more after clinical onset of disease. Treatment may be provided to the subject for less than 1 day, 1 week, 1 month, 6 months, 12 months, or 2 years after clinical onset of the disease. Treatment can also include treating a human in a clinical trial. A treatment, e.g., administration of a therapeutic, can occur 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 times daily. A treatment, e.g., administration of a therapeutic, can occur 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 times weekly. A treatment, e.g., administration of a therapeutic, can occur 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 times monthly. A treatment, e.g., administration of a therapeutic, can occur 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 times yearly. In some instances, therapeutics disclosed herein are administered to a subject at about every 4 to about 6 hours, about every 12 hours, about every 24 hours, about every 48 hours, or more often. In some instances, therapeutics disclosed herein can be administered once, twice, three times, four times, five times, six times, seven times, eight times, or more often daily. In some instances, a dosage form disclosed herein provides an effective plasma concentration of an active agent at from about 1 minute to about 20 minutes after administration, such as about: 2 min, 3 min, 4 min, 5 min, 6 min, 7 min, 8 min, 9 min, 10 min, 11 min, 12 min, 13 min, 14 min, 15 min, 16 min, 17 min, 18 min, 19 min, 20 min, 21 min, 22 min, 23 min, 24 min, 25 min. In some instances, a dosage form of the disclosure herein provides an effective plasma concentration of an active agent at from about 20 minutes to about 24 hours after administration, such as about 20 minutes, 30 minutes, 40 minutes, 50 minutes, 1 hr, 1.2 hrs, 1.4 hrs, 1.6 hrs, 1.8 hrs, 2 hrs, 2.2 hrs, 2.4 hrs, 2.6 hrs, 2.8 hrs, 3 hrs, 3.2 hrs, 3.4 hrs, 3.6 hrs, 3.8 hrs, 4 hrs, 5 hrs, 6 hrs, 7 hrs, 8 hrs, 9 hrs, 10 hrs, 11 hrs, 12 hrs, 13 hrs, 14 hrs, 15 hrs, 16 hrs, 17 hrs, 18 hrs, 19 hrs, 20 hrs, 21 hrs, 22 hrs, 23 hrs, or 24 hrs following administration. In some instances, an active agent can be present in an effective plasma concentration in a subject for about 4 to about 6 hours, about 12 hours, about 24 hour, or 1 day to 30 days, including but not limited to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 or 30 days. In some instances, a therapeutic (e.g., an active agent) is administered to a subject in a dosage of about 0.01 mg to about 500 mg per day, e.g., about 1-50 mg/day for an average person. In some embodiments, the daily dosage is from about 0.01 mg to about 5 mg, about 1 to about 10 mg, about 5 mg to about 20 mg, about 10 mg to about 50 mg, about 20 mg to about 100 mg, about 50 mg to about 150 mg, about 100 mg to about 250 mg, about 150 mg to about 300 mg, or about 250 mg to about 500 mg. In some instances, each administration of a therapeutic (e.g., an active agent) is in an amount of about: 0.1-5 mg, 0.1-10 mg, 1-5 mg, 1-10 mg, 1-20 mg, 10-20 mg, 10-30 mg, 10-40 mg, 10-50 mg, 20-30 mg, 20-40 mg, 20-50 mg, 25-50 mg, 30-40 mg, 30-50 mg, 30-60 mg, 40-50 mg, 40-60 mg, 50-60 mg, 50-75 mg, 60-80 mg, 75-100 mg, or 80-100 mg, for example: about 0.5 mg, about 1 mg, about 1.5 mg, about 2 mg, about 2.5 mg, about 3 mg, about 3.5 mg, about 4 mg, about 4.5 mg, about 5 mg, about 5.5 mg, about 6 mg, about 6.5 mg, about 7 mg, about 7.5 mg, about 8 mg, about 8.5 mg, about 9 mg, about 9.5 mg, about 10 mg, about 10.5 mg, about 11 mg, about 11.5 mg, about 12 mg, about 12.5 mg, about 13 mg, about 13.5 mg, about 14 mg, about 14.5 mg, about 15 mg, about 15.5 mg, about 16 mg, about 16.5 mg, about 17 mg, about 17.5 mg, about 18 mg, about 18.5 mg, about 19 mg, about 19.5 mg, about 20 mg, about 22.5 mg, about 25 mg, about 27.5 mg, about 30 mg, about 32.5 mg, about 35 mg, about 37.5 mg, about 40 mg, about 42.5 mg, about 45 mg, about 47.5 mg, about 50 mg, about 55 mg, about 60 mg, about 65 mg, about 70 mg, about 75 mg, about 80 mg, about 85 mg, about 90 mg, about 95 mg, or about 100 mg. In some instances, a therapeutic (e.g., an active agent) is administered to a subject in a dosage of about 0.01 g to about 100 g per day, e.g., about 1-10 g/day for an average person. In some embodiments, the daily dosage is from about 0.01 g to about 5 g, about 1 to about 10 g, about 5 g to about 20 g, about 10 g to about 50 g, about 20 g to about 100 g, or about 50 g to about 100 g. In some instances, each administration of a therapeutic (e.g., an active agent) is in an amount of about: 0.01-1 g, 0.1-5 g, 0.1-10 g, 1-5 g, 1-10 g, 1-20 g, 10-20 g, 10-30 g, 10-40 g, 10-50 g, 20-30 g, 20-40 g, 20-50 g, 25-50 g, 30-40 g, 30-50 g, 30-60 g, 40-50 g, 40-60 g, 50-60 g, 50-75 g, 60-80 g, 75-100 g, or 80-100 g, for example: about 0.5 g, about 1 g, about 1.5 g, about 2 g, about 2.5 g, about 3 g, about 3.5 g, about 4 g, about 4.5 g, about 5 g, about 5.5 g, about 6 g, about 6.5 g, about 7 g, about 7.5 g, about 8 g, about 8.5 g, about 9 g, about 9.5 g, about 10 g, about 10.5 g, about 11 g, about 11.5 g, about 12 g, about 12.5 g, about 13 g, about 13.5 g, about 14 g, about 14.5 g, about 15 g, about 15.5 g, about 16 g, about 16.5 g, about 17 g, about 17.5 g, about 18 g, about 18.5 g, about 19 g, about 19.5 g, about 20 g, about 22.5 g, about 25 g, about 27.5 g, about 30 g, about 32.5 g, about 35 g, about 37.5 g, about 40 g, about 42.5 g, about 45 g, about 47.5 g, about 50 g, about 55 g, about 60 g, about 65 g, about 70 g, about 75 g, about 80 g, about 85 g, about 90 g, about 95 g, or about 100 g. In some instances, a therapeutic (e.g., in a liquid) administered to a subject having an active agent concentration of about: 0.01-0.1, 0.1-1, 1-10, 1-20, 5-30, 5-40, 5-50, 10-20, 10-25, 10-30, 10-40, 10-50, 15-20, 15-25, 15-30, 15-40, 15-50, 20-30, 20-40, 20-50, 20-100, 30-40, 30-50, 30-60, 30-70, 30-80, 30-90, 30-100, 40-50, 40-60, 40-70, 40-80, 40-90, 40-100, 50-60, 50-70, 50-80, 50-90, 50-100, 50-150, 50-200, 50-300, 100-300, 100-400, 100-500, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800, 850, 900, 950, or 1000 μM, or any combination thereof. In some cases, a therapeutic can comprise one or more active agents, administered to a subject at least about: 0.001 mg, 0.01 mg, 0.1 mg, 0.2 mg, 0.3 mg, 0.4 mg, 0.5 mg, 0.6 mg, 0.7 mg, 0.8 mg, 0.9 mg, 1 mg, 1.5 mg, 2 mg, 2.5 mg, 3 mg, 3.5 mg, 4 mg, 4.5 mg, 5 mg, 5.5 mg, 6 mg, 6.5 mg, 7 mg, 7.5 mg, 8 mg, 8.5 mg, 9 mg, 9.5 mg, or 10 mg, or per kg body weight of a subject in need thereof. The therapeutic may comprise a total dose of one or more active agents administered at about 0.1 to about 10.0 mg, for example, about 0.1-10.0 mg, about 0.1-9.0 mg, about 0.1-8.0 mg, about 0.1-7.0 mg, about 0.1-6.0 mg, about 0.1-5.0 mg, about 0.1-4.0 mg, about 0.1-3.0 mg, about 0.1-2.0 mg, about 0.1-1.0 mg, about 0.1-0.5 mg, about 0.2-10.0 mg, about 0.2-9.0 mg, about 0.2-8.0 mg, about 0.2-7.0 mg, about 0.2-6.0 mg, about 0.2-5.0 mg, about 0.2-4.0 mg, about 0.2-3.0 mg, about 0.2-2.0 mg, about 0.2-1.0 mg, about 0.2-0.5 mg, about 0.5-10.0 mg, about 0.5-9.0 mg, about 0.5-8.0 mg, about 0.5-7.0 mg, about 0.5-6.0 mg, about 0.5-5.0 mg, about 0.5-4.0 mg, about 0.5-3.0 mg, about 0.5-2.0 mg, about 0.5-1.0 mg, about 1.0-10.0 mg, about 1.0-5.0 mg, about 1.0-4.0 mg, about 1.0-3.0 mg, about 1.0-2.0 mg, about 2.0-10.0 mg, about 2.0-9.0 mg, about 2.0-8.0 mg, about 2.0-7.0 mg, about 2.0-6.0 mg, about 2.0-5.0 mg, about 2.0-4.0 mg, about 2.0-3.0 mg, about 5.0-10.0 mg, about 5.0-9.0 mg, about 5.0-8.0 mg, about 5.0-7.0 mg, about 5.0-6.0 mg, about 6.0-10.0 mg, about 6.0-9.0 mg, about 6.0-8.0 mg, about 6.0-7.0 mg, about 7.0-10.0 mg, about 7.0-9.0 mg, about 7.0-8.0 mg, about 8.0-10.0 mg, about 8.0-9.0 mg, or about 9.0-10.0 mg, or per kg body weight of a subject in need thereof. In some cases, a method of treatment disclosed herein comprises administering a therapeutic. In some instances, the method comprises administering a therapeutic includes one or more of the following steps: a) obtaining a genetic material sample of a human female subject, b) identifying in the genetic material of the subject a genetic marker having an association with endometriosis, c) assessing the subject's risk of endometriosis or risk of endometriosis progression, d) identifying the subject as having an altered risk of endometriosis or an altered risk of endometriosis progression, e) administering to the subject a therapeutic, or any combination thereof. In some instances, the subject may be endometriosis presymptomatic or the subject may exhibit endometriosis symptoms. In some instances, the assessment of risk may include non-genetic clinical factors. In some instances, the therapeutic is adapted to the specific subject so as to be a proper and effective amount of therapeutic for the subject. In some instances, the administration of the therapeutic may comprise multiple sequential instances of administration of the therapeutic and that such sequence instances may occur over an extended period of time or may occur on an indefinite on-going basis. In some instances, the therapeutic may be a gene or protein based therapy adapted to the specific needs of a select patient. Hormonal Therapy In some cases, a treatment method herein comprises supplementing the body with a hormone thereof such as a steroid hormone, for example a method of preventing endometriosis comprising administering a hormonal therapy to a human subject having at least one genetic variant defining a minor allele disclosed herein, e.g., listed in Table 1. In some instances, the hormone can be progestin, progestogen, progesterone, desogestrel, etonogestrel, gestodene, levonorgestrel, medroxyprogesterone, norethisterone, norgestimate, megestrol, megestrol acetate, norgestrel, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (e.g., acetate), or any combination thereof. In some instances, a therapeutic used herein is selected from progestins, estrogens, antiestrogens, and antiprogestins, for example micronized danazol in a micro- or nanoparticulate formulation. Methods and therapeutics presented herein can utilize an active agent in a freebase, salt, hydrate, polymorph, isomer, diastereomer, prodrug, metabolite, ion pair complex, or chelate form. An active agent can be formed using a pharmaceutically acceptable non-toxic acid or base, including an inorganic acid or base, or an organic acid or base. In some instances, an active agent that can be utilized in connection with the methods and compositions presented herein is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt derived from acids including, but not limited to, the following: acetic, alginic, anthranilic, benzenesulfonic, benzoic, camphorsulfonic, citric, ethenesulfonic, formic, fumaric, furoic, galacturonic, gluconic, glucuronic, glutamic, glycolic, hydrobromic, hydrochloric, isethionic, lactic, maleic, malic, mandelic, methanesulfonic, mucic, nitric, pamoic, pantothenic, phenylacetic, phosphoric, propionic, salicylic, stearic, succinic, sulfanilic, sulfuric, tartaric acid, or p-toluenesulfonic acid. For further description of pharmaceutically acceptable salts that can be used in the methods described herein see, for example, S. M. Barge et al., “Pharmaceutical Salts,” 1977, J. Pharm. Sci. 66:1-19, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In some instances, the therapeutic may take the form of a testosterone or a modified testosterone such as Danazol. In some instances, the therapeutic can be a hormonal treatment therapeutic which may be administered alone or in combination with a gene therapy. For instance, the therapeutic may be an estrogen containing composition, a progesterone containing composition, a progestin containing composition, a gonadotropin releasing-hormone (GnRH) agonist, a gonadotropin releasing-hormone (GnRH) antagonist, or other ovulation suppression composition, or a combination thereof. In some instances, the GnRH agonist may take the form of a GnRH agonist in combination with a patient specific substantially low dose of estrogen, progestin, or tibolone via an add-back administration. In some instances, in such add-back therapy, the dosage of estrogen, progestin, or tibolone is relatively small so as to not reduce the effectiveness of the GnRH agonist. In some instances, the therapeutic is an oral contraceptive (OC). In some instances, the OC is in a pill form that is comprised at least partially of estrogen, progesterone, or a combination thereof. In some instances, the progesterone component may be any of Desogestrel, Drospirenone, Ethynodiol, Levonorgestrel, Norethindrone, Norgestimate, and Norgestrel, and the estrogen component may further be any of Mestranol, Estradiol, and Ethinyl. In some instances, the OC may be any commercially available OC including ALESSE, APRI, ARANELLE, AVIANE, BREVICON, CAMILA, CESIA, CRYSELLE, CYCLESSA, DEMULEN, DESOGEN, ENPRESSE, ERRIN, ESTROSTEP, JOLIVETTE, JUNEL, KARIVA, LEENA, LESSINA, LEVLEN, LEVORA, LOESTRIN, LUTERA, MICROGESTIN, MICRONOR, MIRCETTE, MODICON, MONONESSA, NECON, NORA, NORDETTE, NORINYL, NOR-QD, NORTREL, OGESTREL, ORTHO-CEPT, ORTHO-CYCLEN, ORTHO-NOVUM, ORTHO-TRI-CYCLEN, OVCON, OVRAL, OVRETTE, PORTIA, PREVIFEM, RECLIPSEN, SOLIA, SPRINTEC, TRINESSA, TRI-NORINYL, TRIPHASIL, TRIVORA, VELIVET, YASMIN, AND ZOVIA (the preceding names are the registered trademarks of the respective providers). Assisted Reproductive Technology Therapy In some cases, a method herein can comprise administering to a select subject assisted reproductive technology therapy (ART), for example a method of treating endometriosis-associated infertility comprising administering ART to a select human subject having at least one genetic variant defining a minor allele disclosed herein, e.g., listed in Table 2. In some instances, ART can comprise in vitro fertilization (IVF), embryo transfer (ET), fertility medication, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), cryopreservation, or any combination thereof. In some instances, ART can comprise surgically removing eggs from a woman's ovaries, combining them with sperm in the laboratory, and returning them to the woman's body or donating them to another woman. In some cases, assisted reproductive technology therapy can comprises all treatments or procedures that include the handling of human eggs or embryos to help a woman become pregnant. For example, in vitro fertilization (IVF), gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT), zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT), tubal embryo transfer, gg and embryo cryopreservation, egg and embryo donation and gestational surrogacy. In some instances, the in vitro fertilization (IVF) procedure can provide for a live birth event following the IVF procedure. In some instances, a method herein provides a probability of a live birth event occurring resulting from the first or subsequent in vitro fertilization cycle based at least in part on items of information from the female subjects. In some instances, the IVF can comprise ovulation induction, utilizing fertility medication can comprise agents that stimulate the development of follicles in the ovary. Examples are gonadotropins and gonadotropin releasing hormone. In some instances, IVF can comprise transvaginal ovum retrieval (OVR), which can be a process whereby a small needle is inserted through the back of the vagina and guided via ultrasound into the ovarian follicles to collect the fluid that contains the eggs. In some instances, IVF can comprise embryo transfer, which can be the step in the process whereby one or several embryos are placed into the uterus of the female with the intent to establish a pregnancy. In some instances, IVF can comprise assisted zona hatching (AZH), which can be performed shortly before the embryo is transferred to the uterus. A small opening can be made in the outer layer surrounding the egg in order to help the embryo hatch out and aid in the implantation process of the growing embryo. In some instances, IVF can comprise artificial insemination, for example intrauterine insemination, intracervical insemination, intrauterine tuboperitoneal insemination, intratubal insemination, or any combination thereof. In some instances, IVF can comprise intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), which can be beneficial in the case of male factor infertility where sperm counts are very low or failed fertilization occurred with previous IVF attempt(s). The ICSI procedure can involve a single sperm carefully injected into the center of an egg using a microneedle. With IC SI, only one sperm per egg is needed. Without ICSI, one may need between 50,000 and 100,000. In some embodiments, this method can be employed when donor sperm is used. In some instances, IVF can comprise autologous endometrial coculture, which can be a possible treatment for patients who have failed previous IVF attempts or who have poor embryo quality. The patient's fertilized eggs can be placed on top of a layer of cells from the patient's own uterine lining, creating a more natural environment for embryo development. In some instances, IVF can comprise zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT), in which egg cells can be removed from the woman's ovaries and fertilized in the laboratory; the resulting zygote can be then placed into the fallopian tube. In some instances, IVF can comprise cytoplasmic transfer, in which the contents of a fertile egg from a donor can be injected into the infertile egg of the patient along with the sperm. In some instances, IVF can comprise egg donors, which are resources for women with no eggs due to surgery, chemotherapy, or genetic causes; or with poor egg quality, previously unsuccessful IVF cycles or advanced maternal age. In the egg donor process, eggs can be retrieved from a donor's ovaries, fertilized in the laboratory with the sperm from the recipient's partner, and the resulting healthy embryos can be returned to the recipient's uterus. In some instances, IVF can comprise sperm donation, which may provide the source for the sperm used in IVF procedures where the male partner produces no sperm or has an inheritable disease, or where the woman being treated has no male partner. In some instances, IVF can comprise preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD), which can involve the use of genetic screening mechanisms such as fluorescent in-situ hybridization (FISH) or comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) to help identify genetically abnormal embryos and improve healthy outcomes. In some instances, IVF can comprise embryo splitting can be used for twinning to increase the number of available embryos. In some instances, ART can comprise gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT), in which a mixture of sperm and eggs can be placed directly into a woman's fallopian tubes using laparoscopy following a transvaginal ovum retrieval. In some instances, ART can comprise reproductive surgery, treating e.g. fallopian tube obstruction and vas deferens obstruction, or reversing a vasectomy by a reverse vasectomy. In surgical sperm retrieval (SSR) the reproductive urologist can obtain sperm from the vas deferens, epididymis or directly from the testis in a short outpatient procedure. By cryopreservation, eggs, sperm and reproductive tissue can be preserved for later IVF. In some instances, a subject to treat can be a pre-in vitro fertilization (pre-IVF) procedure patient. In certain embodiments, the items of information relating to preselected patient variables for determining the probability of a live birth event for a pre-IVF procedure patient may include age, diminished ovarian reserve, 3 follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) level, body mass index, polycystic ovarian disease, season, unexplained female infertility, number of spontaneous miscarriages, year, other causes of female infertility, number of previous pregnancies, number of previous term deliveries, endometriosis, tubal disease, tubal ligation, male infertility, uterine fibroids, hydrosalpinx, and male infertility causes. In some instances, a subject to treat can be a pre-surgical (pre-OR) procedure patient (pre-OR is also referred to herein as pre-oocyte retrieval). In certain embodiments, the items of information relating to preselected patient variables for determining the probability of a live birth event for a pre-OR procedure patient may include age, endometrial thickness, total number of oocytes, total amount of gonatropins administered, number of total motile sperm after wash, number of total motile sperm before wash, day 3 follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) level, body mass index, sperm collection, age of spouse, season number of spontaneous miscarriages, unexplained female infertility, number of previous term deliveries, year, number of previous pregnancies, other causes of female infertility, endometriosis, male infertility, tubal ligation, polycystic ovarian disease, tubal disease, sperm from donor, hydrosalpinx, uterine fibroids, and male infertility causes. In some instances, a subject to treat can be a post-in vitro fertilization (post-IVF) procedure patient. In certain embodiments, the items of information relating to preselected patient variables for determining the probability of a live birth event for a post-IVF procedure patient may include blastocyst development rate, total number of embryos, total amount of gonatropins administered, endometrial thickness, flare protocol, average number of cells per embryo, type of catheter used, percentage of 8-cell embryos transferred, day 3 follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) level, body mass index, number of motile sperm before wash, number of motile sperm after wash, average grade of embryos, day of embryo transfer, season, number of spontaneous miscarriages, number of previous term deliveries, oral contraceptive pills, sperm collection, percent of unfertilized eggs, number of embryos arrested at 4-cell stage, compaction on day 3 after transfer, percent of normal fertilization, percent of abnormally fertilized eggs, percent of normal and mature oocytes, number of previous pregnancies, year, polycystic ovarian disease, unexplained female infertility, tubal disease, male infertility only, male infertility causes, endometriosis, other causes of female infertility, uterine fibroids, tubal ligation, sperm from donor, hydrosalpinx, performance of ICSI, or assisted hatching. Pain Managing Medications In some cases, a method disclosed herein can comprise administering a pain medication to a select subject, for example to a human subject having at least one genetic variant defining a minor allele listed in Table 3. In some instances, the pain medication comprises a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), ibuprofen, naproxen, acetaminophen, an opioid, a cannabis-based therapeutic, or any combination thereof. In some instances, the pain medication described herein can comprise an NSAID, for example amoxiprin, benorilate, choline magnesium salicylate, diflunisal, faislamine, methyl salicylate, magnesium salicylate, diclofenac, aceclofenac, acemetacin, bromfenac, etodolac, indometacin, nabumetone, sulindac, tolmetin, ibuprofen, carprofen, fenbuprofen, flubiprofen, ketaprofen, ketorolac, loxoprofen, naproxen, suprofen, mefenamic acid, meclofenamic acid, piroxicam, lomoxicam, meloxicam, tenoxicam, phenylbutazone, azapropazone, metamizole, oxyphenbutazone, or sulfinprazone, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some instances, the pain medication described herein can comprise an opioid analgesic, for example hydrocodone, oxycodone, morphine, diamorphine, codeine, pethidine, alfentanil, buprenorphine, butorphanol, dezocine, fentanyl, hydromorphone, levomethadyl acetate, levorphanol, meperidine, methadone, morphine sulfate, nalbuphine, oxymorphone, pentazocine, propoxyphene, remifentanil, sufentanil, or tramadol, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some instances, the pain medication described herein can comprise a cannabis-based therapeutic such as a cannabinoid for the treatment, reduction or prevention of pain. Exemplary cannabinoid for the treatment of pain include, without limitation, nabilone, dronabinol (THC), cannabidiol (CBD), cannabinol (CBN), cannabichromeme (CBC), cannabigerol (CBG), tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV), tetrahydrocannabinolic acid (THCA), cannabidivarin (CBDV), cannadidiolic acid (CBDA), ajulemic acid, dexanabinol, cannabinor, HU 308, HU 331, and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS A number of methods and systems are disclosed herein. Specific exemplary embodiments of these methods and systems are disclosed below. Section 1 of Specific EmbodimentsEmbodiment 1 A method comprising: hybridizing a nucleic acid probe to a nucleic acid sample from a human subject suspected of having or developing endometriosis; and detecting a genetic variant in a panel comprising two or more genetic variants defining a minor allele listed in Table 1. Embodiment 2 The method of embodiment 1, wherein the nucleic acid sample comprises mRNA, cDNA, genomic DNA, or PCR amplified products produced therefrom, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 3 The method of embodiment 1 or 2, wherein the nucleic acid sample comprises PCR amplified nucleic acids produced from cDNA or mRNA. Embodiment 4 The method of embodiment 1 or 2, wherein the nucleic acid sample comprises PCR amplified nucleic acids produced from genomic DNA. Embodiment 5 The method of any one of embodiments 1-4, wherein the nucleic acid probe is a sequencing primer. Embodiment 6 The method of any one of embodiments 1-4, wherein the nucleic acid probe is an allele specific probe. Embodiment 7 The method of any one of embodiments 1-6, wherein the detecting comprises DNA sequencing, hybridization with a complementary probe, an oligonucleotide ligation assay, a PCR-based assay, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 8 The method of any one of embodiments 1-7, wherein the panel comprises at least: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 500, or more genetic variants defining minor alleles listed in Table 1. Embodiment 9 The method of any one of embodiments 1-8, wherein the genetic variant has an odds ratio (OR) of at least: 1.5, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, or more. Embodiment 10 The method of any one of embodiments 1-9, wherein the genetic variant comprises a synonymous mutation, a non-synonymous mutation, a nonsense mutation, an insertion, a deletion, a splice-site variant, a frameshift mutation, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 11 The method of any one of embodiments 1-9, wherein the genetic variant comprises a protein damaging mutation. Embodiment 12 The method of any one of embodiments 1-10, wherein the panel further comprises one or more protein damaging or loss of function variants in one or more genes selected from the group consisting of GAT2, CCDC169, CASP8AP2, POU2F3, CD19, IGSF3, GLI3, PEX26, OLIG3, CIB4, NKX3-2, CFTR, and any combinations thereof. Embodiment 13 The method of embodiment 12, further comprising sequencing the one or more genes to identify the one or more protein damaging or loss of function variants. Embodiment 14 The method of embodiment 13, wherein the one or more protein damaging or loss of function variants are identified based on a predictive computer algorithm. Embodiment 15 The method of embodiment 13 of 14, wherein the one or more protein damaging or loss of function variants are identified based on reference to a database. Embodiment 16 The method of any one of embodiments 12-15, wherein the one or more protein damaging or loss of function variants comprise a stop-gain mutation, a spice-site mutation, a frameshift mutation, a missense mutation, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 17 The method of any one of embodiments 1-16, wherein the panel further comprises one or more additional variants defining a minor allele listed in Table 4. Embodiment 18 The method of any one of embodiments 1-17, wherein the panel is capable of identifying human subjects as having or being at risk of developing endometriosis with a specificity of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. Embodiment 19 The method of any one of embodiments 1-18, wherein the panel is capable of identifying human subjects as having or being at risk of developing endometriosis with a sensitivity of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. Embodiment 20 The method of any one of embodiments 1-19, wherein the panel is capable of identifying human subjects as having or being at risk of developing endometriosis with an accuracy of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. Embodiment 21 The method of any one of embodiments 1-20, further comprising administering a therapeutic to the human subject. Embodiment 22 The method of embodiment 21, wherein the therapeutic comprises hormonal therapy, an advanced reproductive technology therapy, a pain managing medication, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 23 The method of embodiment 21, wherein the therapeutic comprises hormonal contraceptives, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) agonists, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) antagonists, progestin, danazol, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 24 The method of any one of embodiments 1-23, wherein the human subject is asymptomatic for endometriosis. Embodiment 25 The method of any one of embodiments 1-24, wherein the human subject is a teenager. Embodiment 26 A method comprising detecting one or more genetic variants defining a minor allele listed in Table 1 in genetic material from a human subject suspected of having or developing endometriosis. Embodiment 27 The method of embodiment 26, wherein the genetic material comprises mRNA, cDNA, genomic DNA, or PCR amplified products produced therefrom, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 28 The method of embodiment 26 or 27, wherein the detecting comprises DNA sequencing, hybridization with a complementary probe, an oligonucleotide ligation assay, a PCR-based assay, of any combination thereof. Embodiment 29 The method of any one of embodiments 26-28, wherein the detecting comprises hybridizing a nucleic acid probe to the genetic material. Embodiment 30 The method of any one of embodiments 26-29, wherein the detecting comprises testing for the presence or absence of at least: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 100, 150, 250, or 500 genetic variants defining a minor allele listed in Table 1. Embodiment 31 The method of any one of embodiments 26-30, wherein the one or more genetic variants have an odds ratio (OR) of at least: 1.5, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, or more. Embodiment 32 The method of any one of embodiments 26-31, further comprising administering a therapeutic to the human subject. Embodiment 33 A method comprising: sequencing one or more genes selected from the group consisting of GAT2, CCDC169, CASP8AP2, POU2F3, CD19, IGSF3, GLI3, PEX26, OLIG3, CIB4, NKX3-2, CFTR, and any combinations thereof to identify one or more protein damaging or loss of function variants in a human subject suspected of having or developing endometriosis; and administering an endometriosis therapy to the human subject. Embodiment 34 The method of embodiment 33, wherein the one or more protein damaging or loss of function variants are identified based on a predictive computer algorithm, reference to a database, or a combination thereof. Embodiment 35 The method of embodiment 33 or 34, wherein the one or more protein damaging or loss of function variants comprise a stop-gain mutation, a spice-site mutation, a frameshift mutation, a missense mutation, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 36 The method of any one of embodiments 33-35, wherein the endometriosis therapy comprises a hormonal therapy, an assisted reproductive technology therapy, a pain medication, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 37 A method of preventing endometriosis comprising administering a hormonal therapy to a human subject having at least one genetic variant defining a minor allele listed in Table 1. Embodiment 38 The method of embodiment 37, wherein the hormonal therapy comprises administration of hormonal contraceptives, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) agonists, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) antagonists, progestin, danazol, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 39 A method of treating endometriosis-associated infertility comprising administering an assisted reproductive technology therapy to a human subject having at least one genetic variant defining a minor allele listed in Table 2. Embodiment 40 The method of embodiment 39, wherein the assisted reproductive technology therapy comprises in vitro fertilization, gamete intrafallopian transfer, or any combination thereof. The method can further comprise administering, intrauterine insemination or ovulation induction. Embodiment 41 A method comprising administering a pain medication to a human subject having at least one genetic variant defining a minor allele listed in Table 3. Embodiment 42 The method of embodiment 41, wherein the pain medication comprises a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), ibuprofen, naproxen, an opioid, a cannabis-based therapeutic, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 43 The method of any one of embodiment 37-42, further comprising detecting the at least one genetic variant in a genetic material from the human subject. Embodiment 44 The method of embodiment 43, wherein the detecting comprises DNA sequencing, hybridization with a complementary probe, an oligonucleotide ligation assay, a PCR-based assay, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 45 The method of embodiment 43, wherein the detecting comprises hybridizing a nucleic acid probe to the genetic material. Embodiment 46 The method of embodiment 45, wherein the nucleic acid probe is a sequencing primer or an allele-specific probe. Embodiment 47 The method of any one of embodiments 37-46, wherein the at least one genetic variant has an odds ratio (OR) of at least: 1.5, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, or more. Embodiment 48 The method of any one of embodiments 37-47, wherein the at least one genetic variant comprises a synonymous mutation, a non-synonymous mutation, a nonsense mutation, an insertion, a deletion, a splice-site variant, a frameshift mutation, or any combination thereof. Section 2 of Specific EmbodimentsEmbodiment 1 A method comprising: (a) sequencing or genotyping a nucleic acid sample obtained from a subject having endometriosis, suspected of having endometriosis, or suspected of having a risk of developing endometriosis using a high throughput method; and (b) detecting one or more genetic variants in said nucleic acid sample, wherein said one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 1, Table 2 or Table 3. Embodiment 2 The method of embodiment 1, wherein said high throughput method comprises nanopore sequencing. Embodiment 3 The method of embodiment 1 or 2, wherein said nucleic acid sample comprises RNA. Embodiment 4 The method of embodiment 3, wherein said RNA comprises mRNA. Embodiment 5 The method of embodiment 1 or 2, wherein said nucleic acid sample comprises DNA. Embodiment 6 The method of embodiment 5, wherein said DNA comprises cDNA, genomic DNA, sheared DNA, cell free DNA, fragmented DNA, or PCR amplified products produced therefrom, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 7 The method of embodiment 5, wherein said DNA comprises DNA from an endometriosis lesion or peritoneal fluid. Embodiment 8 The method of any one of embodiments 1-7, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a genetic variant defining a minor allele. Embodiment 9 The method of any one of embodiments 1-7, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise at least about: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 500, or more genetic variants defining minor alleles. Embodiment 10 The method of any one of embodiments 1-9, wherein detection of said one or more genetic variants has an odds ratio (OR) for endometriosis of at least about: 1.5, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, or more. Embodiment 11 The method of any one of embodiments 1-10, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a synonymous mutation, a non-synonymous mutation, a stop-gain mutation, a nonsense mutation, an insertion, a deletion, a splice-site variant, a frameshift mutation, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 12 The method of any one of embodiments 1-11, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a protein damaging mutation. Embodiment 13 The method of any one of embodiments 12, wherein said one or more genetic variants further comprise a protein damaging or loss of function variant in one or more genes selected from the group consisting of GAT2, CCDC169, CASP8AP2, POU2F3, CD19, IGSF3, GLI3, PEX26, OLIG3, CIB4, NKX3-2, CFTR, and any combinations thereof. Embodiment 14 The method of any one of embodiments 1-12, wherein said one or more genetic variants are comprised in GAT2, CCDC169, CASP8AP2, POU2F3, CD19, IGSF3, GLI3, PEX26, OLIG3, CIB4, NKX3-2, CFTR or a combination thereof. Embodiment 15 The method of any one of embodiments 1-13, further comprising detecting one or more additional variants defining a minor allele listed in Table 4. Embodiment 16 The method of any one of embodiment 1-15, wherein said one or more genetic variants are identified or weighted based on a predictive mathematical or computer programmed algorithm. Embodiment 17 The method of any one of embodiments 1-16, wherein said one or more genetic variants are identified based on reference to a database. Embodiment 18 The method of any one of embodiments 1-17, further comprising identifying said subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis. Embodiment 19 The method of embodiment 18, wherein said identifying said subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis is with a specificity of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. Embodiment 20 The method of any one of embodiments 18-19, wherein said identifying said subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis is with a sensitivity of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. Embodiment 21 The method of any one of embodiments 18-20, wherein said identifying said subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis is with an accuracy of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. Embodiment 22 The method of any one of embodiments 18-21, wherein said subject is identified as having endometriosis. Embodiment 23 The method of embodiment 22, wherein said subject is asymptomatic for endometriosis. Embodiment 24 The method of embodiment 22, wherein said subject is symptomatic for endometriosis. Embodiment 25 The method of any one of embodiments 18-21, wherein said subject is identified as being at risk of developing endometriosis. Embodiment 26 The method of any one of embodiments 1-25, further comprising administering a therapeutic to said subject. Embodiment 27 The method of embodiment 26, wherein said therapeutic comprises hormonal therapy, an advanced reproductive technology therapy, a pain managing medication, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 28 The method of embodiment 26, wherein said therapeutic comprises hormonal contraceptives, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) agonists, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) antagonists, progestin, danazol, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 29 The method of any one of embodiments 26-28, wherein said therapeutic comprises a pain medication. Embodiment 30 The method of embodiment 29, wherein said pain medication comprises a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), ibuprofen, naproxen, an opioid, a cannabis-based therapeutic, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 31 The method of any one of embodiments 1-26, wherein said one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 1. Embodiment 32 The method of any one of embodiments 1-26, wherein said one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 2. Embodiment 33 The method of any one of embodiments 1-26, wherein said one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 3. Embodiment 34 The method of any one of embodiments 1-33, further comprising identifying said subject as having endometriosis-associated infertility or being at risk of developing endometriosis-associated infertility. Embodiment 35 The method of embodiment 34, further comprising administering assisted reproductive technology therapy to said subject. Embodiment 36 The method of embodiment 35, wherein said assisted reproductive technology therapy comprises in vitro fertilization, gamete intrafallopian transfer, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 37 The method of embodiment 34, further comprising administering intrauterine insemination or ovulation induction. Embodiment 38 The method of any one of embodiments 1-37, wherein said subject is a mammal. Embodiment 39 The method of embodiment 38, wherein said mammal is a human. Embodiment 40 The method of any one of embodiments 2-39, wherein said nanopore sequencing is performed with a biological nanopore, a solid state nanopore, or a hybrid nanopore. Embodiment 41 The method of any one of embodiments 1-40, wherein said one or more genetic variants further comprise a mutation in SEPT10, TNFRSF6B, UGT2B28, USP17L2 or any combination thereof. Embodiment 42 The method of embodiment 41, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a mutation in SEPT10 and wherein said mutation comprises a missense mutation. Embodiment 43 The method of embodiment 41, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a mutation in TNFRSF6B and wherein said mutation comprises a homozygous or hemizygous mutation. Embodiment 44 The method of embodiment 41, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a mutation in UGT2B28 or USP17L2 and wherein said mutation comprises a hemizygous deletion. Embodiment 45 The method of any one of embodiments 1-44, wherein the one or more variants are identified based on a predictive computer algorithm. Embodiment 46 The method of embodiment 45, wherein said predictive computer algorithm is Polyphen 2, Sift, Mutation Accessor, Mutation Taster, FATHMM, LRT, or MetaLR. Embodiment 47 The method of any one of embodiments 1-46, further comprising administering a hormonal therapy to said subject. Embodiment 48 The method of embodiment 47, wherein the hormonal therapy comprises administration of hormonal contraceptives, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonists, progestin, danazol, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 49 The method of any one of embodiments 1-46, further comprising administering to the subject an assisted reproductive therapy. Embodiment 50 The method of embodiment 49, wherein the assisted reproductive therapy comprises in vitro fertilization, intrauterine insemination, ovulation induction, gamete intrafallopian transfer, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 51 The method of any one of embodiments 1-46, further comprising administering to the subject a pain medication. Embodiment 52 The method of embodiment 51, wherein the pain medication comprises a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), ibuprofen, naproxen, an opioid, a cannabis-based therapeutic, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 53 The method of any one of embodiments 1-46, further comprising administering a therapeutic to the subject. Embodiment 54 The method of embodiment 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises a regenerative therapy, a medical device, a pharmaceutical composition, a medical procedure, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 55 The method of embodiment 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory, a hormone treatment, a dietary supplement, a cannabis-derived therapeutic or any combination thereof. Embodiment 56 The method of embodiment 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the pharmaceutical composition, and wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises an at least partially hemp-derived therapeutic, an at least partially cannabis-derived therapeutic, a cannabidiol (CBD) oil derived therapeutic, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 57 The method of embodiment 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the medical procedure, and wherein the medical procedure comprises a laparoscopy, a laser ablation procedure, a hysterectomy or any combination thereof. Embodiment 58 The method of embodiment 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the regenerative therapy, and wherein the regenerative therapy comprises a stem cell, a cord blood cell, a Wharton's jelly, an umbilical cord tissue, a tissue, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 59 The method of embodiment 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the pharmaceutical composition, and wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises cannabis, cannabidiol oil, hemp, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 60 The method of embodiment 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the pharmaceutical composition, and wherein the pharmaceutical composition is formulated in a unit dose. Embodiment 61 The method of embodiment 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises hormonal therapy, an advanced reproductive therapy, a pain managing medication, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 62 The method of embodiment 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises a hormonal contraceptive, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist, progestin, danazol, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 63 The method of any one of embodiments 1-62, wherein the subject is asymptomatic for endometriosis. Embodiment 64 A kit comprising: one or more probes for detecting one or more genetic variants of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, or any combination thereof in a sample. Embodiment 65 The kit of embodiment 64, further comprising a control sample. Embodiment 66 The kit of embodiment 64, wherein the control sample comprises one or more genetic variants of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, or any combination thereof. Embodiment 67 The kit of any one of embodiments 64-66, wherein the one or more probes comprise a hybridization probe or amplification primer. Embodiment 68 The kit of any one of embodiments 64-67, wherein the one or more probes is configured to associate with a solid support. Embodiment 69 The kit of any one of embodiments 64-68, wherein the kit further comprises instructions for use and wherein the instructions for use comprise high stringent hybridization conditions. Embodiment 70 The kit of any one of embodiments 64-69, wherein the one or more probes is configured to hybridize to a target region of a nucleic acid of the sample, wherein the target region comprises one or more genetic variants. Embodiment 71 A system comprising: (a) a computer processor configured to receive sequencing data obtained from assaying a sample, wherein the computer processor is configured to identify a presence or an absence of one or more genetic variants of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3 or any combination thereof in the sample, and (b) a graphical user interface configured to display a report comprising the identification of the presence or the absence of the one or more genetic variants in the sample. Embodiment 72 The system of embodiment 71, wherein the computer processor comprises a trained algorithm. Embodiment 73 The system of embodiment 71 or 72, wherein the computer processor communicates a result. Embodiment 74 The system of embodiment 73, wherein the result comprises an identification of the presence or the absence of one or more genetic variants in the sample. Embodiment 75 A method comprising: (a) sequencing or genotyping a nucleic acid sample obtained from a subject having endometriosis, suspected of having endometriosis, or suspected of having a risk of developing endometriosis using a high throughput method; and (b) detecting a genetic variant in said nucleic acid sample, wherein said genetic variant comprises a mutation in SEPT10, TNFRSF6B, UGT2B28, USP17L2 or any combination thereof. Embodiment 76 The method of embodiment 75, wherein said genetic variant is a mutation in SEPT10 and wherein said mutation comprises a missense mutation. Embodiment 77 The method of embodiment 75, wherein said genetic variant is a mutation in TNFRSF6B and wherein said mutation comprises a homozygous or hemizygous mutation. Embodiment 78 The method of embodiment 75, wherein said genetic variant is a mutation in UGT2B28 or USP17L2 and wherein said mutation comprises a hemizygous deletion. Embodiment 79 The method of embodiment 75, wherein said high throughput method comprises nanopore sequencing. EXAMPLESExample 1. Low-Frequency, Damaging Mutations in Hundreds of Genes are Risk Factors for Endometriosis This study performed exome-wide association analysis for rare low frequency mutations in the women with endometriosis. Rare exome variants associated with endometriosis were searched using an exome genotyping array and confirmatory whole exome sequencing (WES). Consent and Medical Review All subjects and controls were provided written informed consent in accordance with study protocols approved by Quorum Review IRB (Seattle, Wash. 98101). Trained OB/GYN clinicians performed the medical record review and clinical assessment of each patient. Methods Illumina Exome Human BeadChip. 1518 Caucasian patients with surgically confirmed endometriosis were tested for more than 200,000 rare non-synonymous variants (minor allele frequency <0.005). Allele frequencies were compared to the population datasets (genotyping dataset UK Michigan (n=50,000) and publicly available sequencing dataset Exac (n=33,000). Affymetrix Axiom Custom Chip. 1888 Caucasian patients with surgically confirmed endometriosis were tested for more than 700,000 variants. Allele frequencies were compared to the population sequencing dataset Exac (n=33,000). Replication was performed on 530 endometriosis subjects with whole exome sequencing data. Association testing was performed using Fisher's exact test. Nominal threshold was selected for significance (p<0.05). Panther software was used to test gene ontologies. A predictive score (E) was estimated for each subject as follows: E=Σ log(L95ORj)*Cj, in which C is a count of risk allele, L95OR is a lower limit of 95% CI of an odds ratio, and j is 1, 2, 3 . . . n, wherein n is the number of the associated variants. Results 775 rare variants associated with endometriosis were identified, 561 of which were identified using Illumina Exome Beadchip, and 214 of which were identified using Affymetrix Axiom Custom Chip. FIG. 1A-1B to FIG. 3 illustrate the results. Multiple low-frequency coding variants can be important in the genetic architecture of endometriosis. The relative risk of having endometriosis is significantly higher in women with multiple damaging variants, suggesting that they may serve as useful predictive or diagnostic markers. Genes involved with Wnt, cadherin, integrin, and inflammation medicated by cytokine signaling pathways are enriched, but trends did not reach significance. Example 2. Genetic Variation Underlying the Clinical Heterogeneity of Endometriosis The study investigated whether two of the typical symptoms—pain and infertility may be linked to distinct genetic factors. A pool of 2818 non-synonymous SNP markers were selected to classify markers associated with pain or infertility patients. In one group, cases were included that reported pain as their primary symptom but not infertility (n=727), and in the other group, cases were included with infertility as their primary symptom with only minimal or no pain (n=138). SNPs were then evaluated for significant variation between the two groups. Methods Genotyping. The samples were genotyped on a custom designed microarray using the Affymetrix Axiom platform per the manufacturer's instructions. Statistical Analysis. Differences in allele frequencies between the two cohorts were tested for each SNP by a 1-degree-of-freedom Corchran-Armitage Trend test. Ethnicity. Subjects were confirmed Caucasian ethnicity using principal component analysis. Population Controls. The marker frequencies were compared to population control dataset of European Ethnicity (n=33,000; ExAc Database) to associate the marker to the respective group. Consent and Medical Review All subjects were provided written informed consent in accordance with study protocols approved by Quorum Review IRB (Seattle, Wash. 98101). Trained OB/GYN clinicians performed the medical record review and clinical assessment of each patient. Inclusion criteria in the endometriosis case population in the study were surgically confirmed diagnosis of endometriosis. Results The analysis identified nine SNP variants with differential prevalence between pelvic pain patients and infertility patients as shown in Table 5. AA Allele Frequency CPP vs. INF SNP Gene Chr Pos change ExAC GPP INF Ptrend OR Genes associated with chronic pain rs172562 TBX18 6 85,473,758 G48R 0.5706 0.4805 0.5766 0.0024 1.47 rs12339210 WHRN/ 9 117,170,241 P562A 0.1636 0.1007 0.1606 0.0040 1.69 DFNB31 rs35471617 COL21A1 6 56,033,094 T343M 0.1274 0.0639 0.1159 0.0021 1.92 rs72899872 LPR1B 2 141,232,800 A3178T 0.0127 0 0.0109 0.0001 ∞ Genes associated with infertility rs8139422 CRELD2 22 50,315,363 D182E 0.0313 0.0282 0.0616 0.0040 2.27 rs78214713 OR51Q1 11 5,444,040 L204F 0.0066 0.0089 0.029 0.0259 3.33 rs7597367 SCLY 2 238,973,062 K60E 0.0006 0 0.0073 0.0011 ∞ rs35880972 BIRC8 19 53,793,162 A156T 0.0004 0 0.0072 0.0012 ∞ rs34505126 BMP3 4 81,967,240 T222M 0.0006 0 0.0072 0.0012 ∞ Table 5 summarizes the results from a comparison of endometriosis associated variants with significantly different allele frequencies between patients with pelvic pain or infertility. ExAc can refer to frequencies reported by the ExAc consortium. CPP can refer to chronic pelvic pain and INF to infertility. Italic front indicates frequencies deviant from the general population. The analysis identified five genes (CRELD2, OR51Q1, SCLY, BIRC8, BMP3) associated with infertility and four genes (TBX18, WHRN, COL21A1, LRP1B) associated with chronic pain. There was a sufficient power (>0.8) to detect markers with OR greater than 1.5 at significance level of 0.05. A review of the function of the genes identified can implicate several of the genes in both the pain and infertility pathways. Both WHRN and TBX18 which show differential allele frequencies in patients with pelvic pain have been shown to be linked to pain-pathways. Mutations in WHRN have been linked to deafness and mechano- and thermo-sensitive deficiencies and can stabilize the paranodal region and axonal cytoskeleton in myelinated axons. TBX18 is an important development regulator of the pericardium, prostate, nephrons, urogenital tubes, and seminiferous tubules and mutations in TBX18 have been linked to pain in the chest, back, and flank. Conversely, CRELD2 which show differential allele frequencies in infertility patients is linked with fertility. CRELD2 is expressed in Oviductal epithelial cells in a manner that is very strongly correlated with the menstrual cycle and suggestive of an important reproductive role. Pain and infertility can be two common but distinct clinical symptoms of endometriosis. In the present study, 9 non-synonymous variants were identified from a broad group of endometriosis associated variants that show distinct association with only one of the two symptoms and thus are suggestive of genetic classification of clinical subgroups of endometriosis. Example 3. Novel High-Risk Damaging Mutations Discovered in Familial Endometriosis Whole exome sequencing (WES) was used in endometriosis families to determine if inherited, rare, high-risk protein coding variants contribute to endometriosis. Endometriosis is a complex disease with underlying genetic and environmental factors. Array-based genotyping platforms are well suited for GWA studies detecting association with common variants (minor allele frequencies >3-5%), whereas sequencing is required to detect rare and low-frequency protein coding variants. Subjects with familial endometriosis tend to carry a higher burden of genetic variants; families can be less likely to have potentially confounding (population stratification) effects. Studying genetic variants located on the same DNA strand (haplotypes) can help resolve the inheritance pattern of a disease variant by determining if two individuals who carry the same genetic variant have inherited the variant via shared recent ancestry (same haplotype) or whether their variants are derived from two independent mutation events (different haplotypes). Methods WES was performed on 489 women with familial endometriosis and 530 unrelated women (confirmed with identity-by-descent test) with endometriosis. Wes was also performed using Ion Proton Instrument (FIG. 4) and AmpliSeq Exome Capture kit. All missense and protein truncating variants with a MAF<1% in ExAc database (Broad Institute) were considered for downstream analysis. Variant frequencies were compared with population frequency in ExAc database (n=33,000) using Fisher's exact test (exac. broadinstitute.org). Several software packages were used to predict whether the identified mutation would damage the encoded protein. Consent and Medical Review All subjects were provided written informed consent in accordance with study protocols approved by Quorum Review IRB (Seattle, Wash. 98101). Inclusion criteria were surgically confirmed diagnosis. Results This study identified 4 protein damaging variants significantly more prevalent in familial endometriosis. The 4 high-risk variants also pass genome-wide significance as shown in Table 6 below. Association was verified for all but the BRD9 variant in the cohort of unrelated endometriosis patient. TABLE 6 Four genes with low-frequency damaging mutations showing association to endometriosis. Index mutation Gene burden Gene AAchange EndoFrq ExacFrq P OR EndoFrq ExacFrq P OR LONP1 splice 0.0028 Not 4.2 × 10−19 Inf 0.0302 0.0199 2.6 × 10−2 1.5 [1-2] seen IGF2 Q33X 0.0048 0.0009 3.0 × 10−10 15 [8-27] 0.0085 0.0014 3.0 × 10−5 6 [3-12] BRD9 K39R 0.0009 0.0017 5.6 × 10−9 10 [5-21] 0.0057 0.0101 2.1 × 10−1 0.6 [0.3-1.3] SNAP91 T555A 0.0106 0.0050 1.1 × 10−8 5 [3-8] 0.0179 0.0045 1.3 × 10−6 4 [2-6] LONP1 (Lon protease) is a nuclear encoded protease in the mitochondria responsible for the degradation of misfolded proteins. LONP1 is expressed in endometrium and endometrial cancer, and affects endothelial mesenchymal transition in a dose dependent manner. Using a Genealogy database (GenDB) a shared ancestor ˜13 generations ago was identified. All affected individuals shown with LONP1 variant in FIG. 5 share identical haplotype of ˜140 kb which is concordant with a single shared ancestor 11-15 generations in the past. IGF2 (Insulin-like growth factor 2) has previously been implicated in endometriosis in Korean women. The IGF axis has been implicated in growth regulation of endometriosis. In blood, IGF2 is an imprinted gene expressed only from the paternal haplotype. SNAP91 (Synaptosome Associated Protein 91) and BRD9 (Bromodomain Containing 9) are novel endometriosis candidates but little is known about their function. This study identified low-frequency damaging protein mutations segregating in families with endometriosis. IGF2 is the second implicated gene identified associated with endometriosis after NLRP2. Only 50 imprinted genes are known in humans to date suggesting imprinting plays a role in endometriosis. LONP1 and IGF2 regulate EMT in the pathogenesis of endometriosis. Example 4. CCDC168 and MUC12 Show Recessive Effects in Women with Endometriosis Compound heterozygosity help identify genes involved in endometriosis. Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) was used on samples from 1,385 participants. Samples 1019 Endometriosis samples were sequenced, 530 of which were for discovery, 301 of which were for replication, and 188 of which were related (2nd cousin or closer). 366 control samples were sequenced. Variant and Gene selection Protein-altering variants in discovery w frequency <1% in ExAC. 3039 genes were found individuals with 2+ variants per gene in the discovery set and thus can possibly be recessive genes. FIG. 6 illustrates mutation patterns cis/trans/haplotypes. Excess burden analysis of samples with 2+ protein-altering variants. Discovery (530 Endo vs 366 Ctl)− two genes with excess burden, PFisher<0.001. Replication (301 Endo vs 366 Ctl)− both genes replicate, PFisher<0.05. Results CCDC168 and MUC12 show significant excess variant count in endometriosis. Sample counts with rare protein-altering variants (ExACfreq<1%) TABLE 7 Variant count of CCDC168 95 Unique variants 2+ 0-1 Cases 31 988 Controls 0 366 gnomAD (0.05) 1 365 TABLE 8 Variant count of MUC12 82 Unique variants 2+ 0-1 Cases 47 970 Controls 1 365 gnomAD (0.14) 7 359 The variant counts of 2+ include all homozygotes, hemizygotes, and compound heterozygotes (cis and trans). Both genes show significant excess in endometriosis samples with 2+ hits also when compared with gnomAD. The two novel genes, CCDC168 and MUC12, have large recessive effects in endometriosis and can be biologically relevant in endometriosis. 7.6% of endometriosis patients can have compound heterozygote mutations with 4-30 fold excess compared with control populations. CCDC168 is coiled-coil domain containing 168. CCDC168 can be differentially expressed in malignancies. Antibody staining can show prominent staining in various epithelial tissues. In some instances, CCDC168 is only present in placental animals (those with endometrium). MUC12 is a transmembrane mucin expressed across many epithelial tissues including colon, pancreas, prostate or uterus. In some instances, transmembrane mucins are single-stranded proteins undergo proteolytic cleavage splitting TM and EC domains, lubricate epithelial surfaces, bind ligands, regulate epithelial wound healing, and/or extracellular domain detach with excess force (intracellular signaling and EMT). In some instances, a transmembrane mucin disclosed herein is MUC1, MUC4, MUC12, or MUC16. The extra cellular domain of MUC16 can be cancer antigen 125 (CA125), an important marker of ovarian cancer and endometriosis. Example 5. Rare Synonymous Mutations Show Strong Association with Endometriosis The study is to determine if rare synonymous variants might contribute to the genetic risk for developing endometriosis. Synonymous and non-synonymous DNA variants can occur within the protein-coding part of a gene. Synonymous variants do not affect the amino-acid sequence, and non-synonymous variants do affect the amino-acid sequence, due to the redundancy in the genetic code. GWAS intergenic SNP variants may be determined from eQTL fine mapping, and rare non-synonymous variants may be determined from Whole Exome Sequencing. Methods Whole exome sequencing was performed on 1,077 study participants with surgically diagnosed endometriosis. Saliva DNA underwent AmpliSeq sequencing on an Ion Proton, and sequence was assembled using the Torrent software. Variant frequencies were compared to frequencies in gnomAD, which was used as reference for population-wide variant frequencies. Synonymous variants with a minor allele frequency <0.01 in the general population were considered. Fisher's Exact test was used to calculate association statistics. PANTHER database was used for GO (Gene Ontology) term enrichment analysis. Results 114,877 synonymous rare variants were identified among patients. 648 synonymous variants passed the nominal significance threshold (p<0.05) across 617 genes. Table 9 shows five variants strongly associated with endometriosis that pass the genome-wide significance threshold of p≤5×10−8. TABLE 9 Five strongly associated synonymous variants Gene Chr Position P OR Nucl change Amino Acid KRTAP5-1 11 1,606,402 2.0 × 10−11 43 C78T S26S GPR137 11 64,051,889 6.7 × 10−15 49 G51A G17G UBC 12 125,398,297 1.5 × 10−33 94 T21C T7T ADAMTS7 15 79,058,944 2.5 × 10−11 11 T3309A A1103A SYNE1 6 152,457,795 6.7 × 10−8 5 G25617A E8539E 17 genes have 2-or-more rare synonymous disease associated variants were found with only one expected by chance (p<0.001): ABCC5, ANK3, ATP8B4, CCDC147, CELSR1, DNAH3, EML6, HERC2, ITGA2, KIF23, LAMA5, PKD1, SLC22A20, SSPO, TENM2, TUBGCP2, VPS18. GO-term analysis show significant enrichment of a single GO term: “cytoskeletal structure and regulation” (OR=13.4). Rare intronic splice-junction variants were considered among the 17 genes, and 5 variants in CCDC147, LAMA5, and SSPO may affect the risk-burden. This is the first time that rare synonymous variants may have been implicated in endometriosis. The genes may carry these mutations that are enriched for cytoskeletal function. Go-term and functional analysis implicate cytoskeletal regulation in the genetic predisposition of endometriosis. There variants may prove useful in developing a non-invasive test for endometriosis. Example 6. Large Effect Mutations in Endometriosis Genes Implicated by GWAS Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) implicate several chromosomal regions as genetic risk factors for endometriosis. These regions have been “tagged” by polymorphic markers located between genes or in non-coding introns. Sequenced were the exons of 16 genes in GWAS regions to search for causative mutations, i.e., to find gene mutations responsible for the association observed in 16 genes implicated by endometriosis GWAS. Methods AmpliSeq sequencing on Ion Protons was conducted on DNA samples from 1,019 women with confirmed endometriosis. After sequence assembly using Torrent software, variant annotation was performed using ANNOVAR (hg19 reference). Frequencies of coding variants were compared against a large reference dataset (sequence data from 63,369 non-Finnish Europeans in gnomAD). Variants were found using Torrent Variant Caller (UCSC hg19). Association statistics were calculated using Fisher's Exact test; linkage disequilibrium statistics were calculated using LDlink. Cases: n=1,019 European women with confirmed endometriosis. Controls: n=63,369 non-Finnish Europeans in gnomAD). Results 571 variants were detected; 333 of these alter an amino acid in the encoded protein and 234 low-frequency (MAF<1%), missense mutations are predicted to be pathogenic (in-silico). Likely pathologic variants are uncommon in the reference data (which contains women with endometriosis and males carrying risk factors); but the identified variants were often seen in multiple endometriosis patients. The excess of pathogenic mutations in cases was striking (p<10−16). 4 mutations (see Table 10) have high odds ratios for endometriosis with p values well below a multiple testing threshold (p≤9×10−5). Mutations predicted to shorten the encoded protein (loss of function) were also detected (2 splicing changes, and 7 “stop” mutations). Stop mutations (seen in five genes: GREB1, NFE2L3, FN1, SYNE1 and VEZT) were more prevalent in the endometriosis cohort compared to the population data (p=1.7×10−13). There is no measureable linkage disequilibrium between any of the new variants and tagging GWAS markers. FIG. 7 to FIG. 9 further illustrate the results. TABLE 10 Mutations with p values below multiple correction threshold. Inf means that the variant was not observed in the control cohort. Endo- Protein Control metriosis Odds Ratio Gene change Frequency Frequency p(fisher) [L95-U05] FN1 p.V527M Not seen 0.00147 4.03E−06 Inf. NFE2L3 p.I233V Not seen 0.00147 4.03E−06 Inf. SYNE1 p.E8539E 0.00206 0.00785 1.11E−05 3.84 VEZT p.P712S 0.00005 0.00196 1.23E−05 41.50 This is the first comprehensive study of coding mutations in all 16 GWAS candidate genes. Coding variants may not explain the association observed in GWAS studies, thus regulatory mutations outside of the coding regions are likely to be involved. The mutations having large effects confirm an important role for these genes in the pathogenesis of endometriosis. Example 7. Detailed Methods for Detection of Low Frequency Variants Medical Review. The inclusion criteria in the endometriosis case population in the present study were surgically confirmed diagnosis of endometriosis with laparoscopy being the preferred method. Trained OB/GYN clinicians performed the medical record review and clinical assessment of each individual patient. Patients were considered to be affected if they had biopsy-proven lesions or if operative reports revealed unambiguous gross lesions. Patients were further categorized by severity, clinical history of pelvic pain, infertility, dyspareunia or dysmenorrhea and family history. Patients were grouped into one of three classes of severity: mild, moderate or severe, following the general guidelines set forth by ASRM. This analysis compared cases with 100% prevalence of endometriosis to controls with the population prevalence of endometriosis (5-10%). DNA Extraction. Saliva samples were collected using the Oragene 300 saliva collection kit (DNA Genotek; Ottawa, Ontario, Canada) and DNA was extracted using an automated extraction instrument, AutoPure LS (Qiagen; Valencia, Calif.), and manufacturer's reagents and protocols. DNA quality was evaluated by calculation absorbance ratio OD260/OD280, and DNA quantification was measured using PicoGreenH (Life Technologies; Grand Island, N.Y.). Microarray Genotyping. The discovery set of 2019 endometriosis cases and 25476 population controls were genotyped using the Illumina Human OmniExpress Chip (Illumina; San Diego, Calif.) according to protocols provided by the manufacture. An additional 905 endometriosis cases were genotyped on a custom designed microarray using the Affymetrix GeneTitan platform according to the manufacturer's instructions. Sample Quality Control. Samples were excluded from the analysis if they missed any of the following quality thresholds: a) Evidence of familial relationship closer that 3rd-degree (pi-hat>0.2) using genome-wide Identity-By-State (IBS) estimation implemented in PLINK b) Samples with missing genotypes >0.02 c) Samples with non-European admixture >0.05 as determined by ADMIXTURE SNP Quality Control. SNPS were excluded from the analysis if they missed any of the following quality thresholds: a) SNPs from copy number variant regions or regions with adjacent SNPs b) SNPs failing Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium (HWE) P<=10−3 c) SNPs with minor allele frequency (MAF)<=0.01 in the control population d) SNP call rate <=98% Admixture. ADMIXTURE (ver. 1.22) was used to estimate the individual ancestry proportion. The software estimates the relative admixture proportions of a given number of a priori defined ancestral groups contributing to the genome of each individual. The POPRES dataset (Nelson M R et al. 2008) was used as a reference group to create a supervised set of 9 ancestral clusters. Seven of them belong to the European subgroups along with African and Asian groups. Since POPRES dataset utilized Affymetrix 5.0 chip, 105,079 autosomal SNPs that overlapped with the Illumina OmniExpress dataset were used. Among the 105,079 SNPs, a subset of 33,067 SNPs was selected that showed greater genetic variation (absolute difference in frequency) among the 9 reference groups. The pair-wise autosomal genetic distance determined by Fixation Index (FST) using 33,067 SNPs was calculated for the 9 reference groups as listed in POPRES dataset. Subsequently, a conditional test was used to estimate the admixture proportions in the unknown samples as described by Alexander et al. (2009). Principal Component Analysis (PCA). PCA was applied to account for population stratification among the European subgroups. The previously identified 33,067 SNPs were selected to infer the axes of variation using EIGENSTRAT. Only the top 10 eigenvectors were analyzed. Most of the variance among the European populations was observed in the first and second eigenvector. The first eigenvector accounts for the east-west European geographical variation while the second accounts for the north-south component. Only the top 10 eigenvectors showed population differences using Anova statistics (p<0.01). The PCA adjusted Armitrage trend P-values were calculated using the top 10 eigenvectors as covariates. Association Analysis. After the quality of all data was confirmed for accuracy, genetic association was determined using the whole-genome association analysis toolset, PLINK (ver. 1.07). Differences in allele frequencies between endometriosis patients and population controls were tested for each SNP by a 1 degrees of freedom Cochran-Armitrage Trend test. The allelic odds ratios were calculated with a confidence interval of 95%. SNPs that passed the quality control parameters were prioritized using the PCA adjusted cochran-Armitrage trend test P-values. The combined/metaanalysis of different datasets was performed using Cochran-Mantel-Hanszel method as well as using Cochran-Armitrage Trend test. Breslow Day test was used to determine between-cluster heterogeneity in the odds ratio for the disease/SNP association. Software Used. PLINK (version 1.07). R (version 2.15.0). EIGENSTRAT (version 3.0). Example 8. Detailed Methods for Gene Sequencing and Detection of Low-Frequency Damaging Variants DNA Extraction and Genotyping. DNA used in the present study was extracted from blood or saliva using standard extraction methods. Genotyping was performed using the Illumina HumanExome (Illumina, San Diego, Calif.) according to protocols provided by the manufactures. Sample and SNP Quality Control The discovery set of 1518 cases were genotyped using the Illumina Human Exome Chip (Illumina; San Diego, Calif.) per protocols provided by the manufacture. Samples were excluded from the analysis if they missed any of the following quality thresholds: a) Evidence of familial relationship closer that 3rd-degree ({circumflex over (π)}>0.2) using genome-wide Identity-By-State (IBS) estimation implemented in PLINK. b) Samples with missing genotypes >0.02 c) Samples with non-European admixture >0.05 as determined by ADMIXTURE SNPS were excluded from the analysis if they missed any of the following quality thresholds: a) SNPs with Illumina GenTrain Score <0.65 b) SNPs from copy number variant regions or regions with adjacent SNPs c) SNP call rate ≤98% Exome Sequencing and Variant Discovery Whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed on 2400 endometriosis cohort using Ion Proton Instrument as per the manufacturer's protocol (Life Technologies, Carlsbad Calif.) using their AmpliSeq Exome Capture Kit. Sequence alignment and variant calling was performed against the reference human genome (UCSC hg19 version). The variant discovery was performed using Life Technologies TMAP algorithm with their default parameter settings, and Life Technologies Torrent Variant Caller was used to discover variants. The variants identified from the Torrent Variant Caller were taken further for downstream analysis. The variants included were single nucleotide variants, short insertions, or deletions. Variant annotation was performed using ANNOVAR. The coding variants were classified as missense, frameshift, splicing, stop-gain, or stop-loss. Variants were considered “loss-of-function” if they caused a stop-gain, splicing, or frame-shift insertion or deletion. Prediction of protein function was evaluated in silico using seven different algorithms (Polyphen 2, Sift, Mutation Accessor, Mutation Taster, FATHMM, LRT, and MetaLR. Missense variants were deemed “damaging missense” if they were predicted damaging by at least one of the seven algorithms tested. The genes that harbor these variants were also checked against the published “FLAGS” gene list (Shyr C et al. 2014) to understand whether the gene is frequently mutated in humans. Low Frequency Variants Variants that pass the population control frequency (gnomAD) of MAF<1% were called “low frequency variants”. These variants were analyzed to test for association using Fisher's Exact Test. The low frequency variants were prioritized based on their Fisher's p value. Gene Burden The genetic burden was calculated for each gene by collapsing/combining all low frequency variants identified through WES. Fisher's Exact Test was used to determine excess gene burden in endometriosis subjects compared to the control population counts as observed in gnomAD database by generating 2×2 table per gene for the number of reference and alternative alleles. The genes were then prioritized based on their Fisher's p value. Example 9. Whole Exome Sequencing Identifies Markers of Endometriosis Twin and family studies show that heritability for endometriosis may be high, yet the GWAS markers and copy number variants identified explain about 5% of the heritability. Multigenerational pedigrees can be used to identify variants/genes with large effects in complex diseases. A large endometriosis family spanning 19 generations with 218 women with surgically confirmed disease was used for this study. For endometriosis, one cannot assume that all distant relatives share a single causative mutation. However, segregation analyses suggest that autosomal major gene effects may be likely. Referring to FIG. 12, whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed on 137 women with surgically confirmed endometriosis having a common ancestor born in 1608. The WES was utilized to search for pathogenic mutations. All coding variants were evaluated. Variants may be deemed damaging if they were predicted to be damaging “in-silico” by at least one algorithm of Polyphen 2, Sift, Mutation Accessor, Mutation Taster, FATHMM, LRT, or MetaLR. The excess variant burden in this family was compared against population controls (e.g. exome sequencing data for the non-Finnish European cohort in the gnomAD database, wherein n=55,860). A damaging missense variant (p.T166I) in SEPT10 gene seen in about 0.18% of controls was seen in a 20 fold excess (3.6%) in the large endometriosis family (p=1.98×10−10; Odds Ratio (OR)=20.6 [10.8=39.30]. SEPTIN10 is a cytoskeletal protein that may have GTP-binding and GTPase activity. Referring to FIG. 13, septins may polymerize into heterooligomeric protein complexes that form filaments, and can associate with cellular membranes, actin filaments and microtubules. Referring to FIG. 14, a TNFRSF6B haplotype (also called DcR3) which spans 41 kb was present in 76 of the 137 subjects with surgically confirmed endometriosis (p=1.7×10−8; Odds Ratio (OR)=2.11); 21 of the affected women were homozygous or hemizygous. These results suggest mutations in one or more genes—TNFRSF6B and SEPT10—may be diagnostic for predicting a risk of developing or confirming a presence of endometriosis. Example 10. Whole Exome Sequencing Identifies Markers of Endometriosis Endometriosis affects from about 6% to about 10% of women during their reproductive years with symptoms including pelvic pain, dyspareunia, dysmenorrhea, infertility, or any combination thereof. Twin and family studies show that heritability for endometriosis may be high; yet common genetic variations identified by genome-wide association studies only explain about 5% of the heritability. It is possible that rare and recent familial mutations, not detectable by GWAS, may be responsible for part of the missing heritability. Next generation sequencing gives the opportunity to look for less-common variants with large effects. In this study, we used whole exome sequencing (WES) to identify inherited deletion variants in a three generation family of seven affected women with surgically confirmed endometriosis. Exome sequencing was performed using the AmpliSeq technology on Ion Proton platform (Thermo Fisher, Inc) according to manufacturers instructions. Variants were determined using Ion Proton protocol and confirmed using the GATK (Genome Analysis Toolkit) pipeline. Segmental deletions were identified by observing three-or-more homozygous neighboring variants in the matriarch that failed to segregate in a Mendellan manner in her daughters/grand-daughters. A three-generation family with seven affected members is shown in FIG. 15 together with notable symptoms tabulated to the right of the pedigree. Case 1 was the first individual in the family to be diagnosed with endometriosis and underwent surgical hysterectomy at age 32 due to stage IV bilateral ovarian endometriosis. Her mother (not shown in the pedigree) had four children with no gynecological problems. However, her three daughters (cases 2-4) and three grand-daughters (cases 5-7) all have been surgically diagnosed with endometriosis. In addition to endometriosis, case 1 has been diagnosed with 14 other morbidities including Crohn's disease, interstitial cystitis, bronchial asthma, cardiovascular diseases, lupus erythematosus and multiple sclerosis, all of which have been positively associated with endometriosis. Referring to FIG. 16, we identified approximately 20,000 exonic variants in each of the seven individuals, and almost 34,000 variants combined across the pedigree, which is in line with expectations. IBD and segregation analysis confirmed all individual relationships and the overall pedigree structure. We identified two hemizygous deletions segregating in this three-generation family. A deletion was found in UGT2B28 (UDP Glucuronosyltransferase Family 2 Member B28), spanning seven informative sequence variants across at least 14 kb, a deletion in USP17L2 (Ubiquitin Specific Peptidase 17-Like Family Member 2) spans three informative variants across at least 2 kb. Both deletions are present in the affected grand-mother and segregate in as many as four and five of her descendants respectively. Further in-depth analysis of normally segregating rare variants is ongoing. These results implicate UGT2B28 and USP17L2 in the pathogenesis of endometriosis. UGT2B28 is phase II detoxification gene involved in glucuronidation of many substrates including steroid hormones and lipid-soluble drugs. USP17L2 is a deubiquitinase that regulates key cellular processes like proliferation, migration and apoptosis through the activation of small GTPases like RAC1A, CDCl42 and RHOA, and the regulation of adherence junctions. USP17L2 plays a central role in the regulation of the transcription factors SNAIL, SLUG and TWIST which are key gate-keepers of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Dosage dependent loss of USP17L2 may affect mesothelial integrity and may increase the risk for developing endometriosis. Example 11. Segregation Analysis of Families: Dominant Genes Contribute to Pathogenesis of Endometriosis The largest endometriosis family reported to date: spanning 19 generations with 218 women with surgically confirmed endometriosis were utilized in this study. An autosomal major gene effect may be likely in this family. Risk of endometriosis in 123 smaller families with probands selected from the same time period and unrelated to the index pedigree were examined. A genetic segregation analysis was performed to identify large pedigrees with familial endometriosis, observe segregation patterns for surgical endometriosis, and compare segregation patterns with dominant patters seen in the 137 subject index pedigree. Referring to FIG. 18, over 1900 women from Intermountain West US with surgically confirmed endometriosis were included in the study. A 3-generation pedigree was obtained for each affected woman. A genealogy database (GenDB) was utilized to find common ancestors linking one or more grandparents of probands. Probands with no genealogy available were eliminated. Probands with a birth date between 1960 and 1995 were selected arriving at an index pedigree of 89 subjects having surgically confirmed endometriosis and unrelated pedigree of 123 subjects having surgically confirmed endometriosis. Percentage of affected subjects in both the index pedigree and unrelated pedigrees is shown in FIG. 19 and the rate of surgically diagnosed endometriosis is shown in FIG. 20. Referring to FIG. 17, prevalence of endometriosis in close relatives is much higher than the 2-3% prevalence of surgically diagnosed endometriosis in the general population. The rates observed are also higher than expected with multifactorial polygenic inheritance. Analysis of larger number of families confirms that autosomal dominant, high penetrance risk alleles for endometriosis segregate in families. The heritability of endometriosis may be higher than estimated by older twin studies. TABLE 1 Variants associated with endometriosis. Inf means that the variant was not observed in the control cohort. Alter- nate Refer- Allele/ Amino OR ence Minor Acid Case Control p [L95- Context SEQ Chr Position Allele Allele Gene position MAF MAF value U95] Sequence ID NO chr 113921 G A TNFRS p.R175C 0.006 0.004 2.97 1.57 CCTGGGGAG SEQ 1 6 F18 86 37 E- [1.07- GGGCTGGCT ID 02 2.31] GCGGTCGGT No: GGCCCCGGA 1 GGAC[G/A]G CCAGGCTCA CACCCACAG GTCTCCCAG CCGCCCCTT CTC chr 145259 T C ATAD3 p.W110R 0.007 0.000 2.93 19.2 GCTGGAAGC SEQ 1 2 A 35 38 E- 4[11. CCTGAGCCT ID 22 09- GCTGCACAC NO: 33.3 ACTAGTCTG 2 8] GGCA[T/C]GG AGTCTCTGC CGTGCCGGA GCCGTGCAG ACACAGGAG CG chr 370358 C T LRRC4 p.V301M 0.006 0.004 2.53 1.61 ACGTGCAGG SEQ 1 9 7 62 12 E- [1.09- ACCCTGAGC ID 02 2.38] AGCAGCCGG No: CCGGCATCT 3 CCCA[C/T]GT CCTGCTCCTC CCCATCACC ACCTTCCCG CCTCTGCTTC chr 908311 G T SLC2A p.T59 0.006 0.003 1.69 1.7[1 GAGCTTCCC SEQ 1 2 7 N 13 61 E- .14- GTCCATGAA ID 02 2.55] TGTTGCGTG No: TCGCTCAAA 4 GTAG[G/T]TT TCGTTGTAA AATGACTTG AAGACCTGG AAAACATTG CC chr 105293 A G DFFA p.I69T 0.007 0.005 4.67 1.46 ATTGGAAGG SEQ 1 26 60 20 E- [1.02- TAGACACAG ID 02 2.1] AAAGTAATC No: GTCATCATC 5 CACT[A/G]TG GTGCCATCC TCTGCCAGG ACCAGGGTG ACTGGTGTC AG chr 119833 C T KIAA2 p.E410 0.005 0.003 1.44 1.72 ATCTGCTGG SEQ 1 52 013 K 88 42 E- [1.14- ACGGAGGAC ID 02 2.61] AGCCGCCCC No: GGCCACAGG 6 TTCT[C/T]GG CGTGCATGG TGGCGTGCC CGCTGAAGC AGTGATCTT CA chr 128559 A G PRAM p.N42 0.005 0.003 3.74 1.63 TCCTGCCCCT SEQ 1 96 EF1 6D 39 31 E- [1.06- GAGGAGAGT ID 02 2.52] TTGAATTCCT No: TGGTTCGTG 7 TC[A/G]ATTG GGAGATCTT CACCCCACT TCGGGCTGA GCTGATGTG chr 128560 C T PRAM p.G45 0.014 0.003 6.69 4.78 CACTGAGGG SEQ 1 79 EF1 3G 22 01 E- [3.6- AAGTCAGGC ID 20 6.33] AGCCCAAGA No: GGATCTTCA 8 TTGG[C/T]CC CACCCCCTG CCCTTCCTGT GGCTCATCA CCGTCTGAG G chr 136692 C T PRAM p.E352 0.006 0.000 5.37 201. TGGGAGTAG SEQ 1 76 EF14 K 86 03 E- 46[6 TGGATCTGA ID 35 1.22- CAGCCCTCC No: 662. AAGATGAGG 9 92] GTTT[C/T]GA GAGAGGCAG CAATTTTCTC TAGCAGAGC TCCGAGGGG T chr 159869 A T RSC1A p.N20 0.005 0.002 2.92 1.78 AACATAGGG SEQ 1 77 1 51 205 931 E- [1- GACCTTGAG ID 02 2.94] CTTCCTGAA NO: GAAAGGCAA 10 CAGA[A/T]TC AACACAAAA TTGTTGATTT GGAAGCTAC GATGAAAGG A chr 176033 C T PADI3 p.H50 0.009 0.006 2.64 1.47 CCTGCTTCA SEQ 1 40 8H 07 19 E- [1.05- AGCTCTTCC ID 02 2.05] AGGAAAAGC NO: AGAAGTGTG 11 GCCA[C/T]GG GAGGGCCCT CCTGTTCCA GGGGGTTGT TGGTGGGTA AC chr 194511 A T UBR4 p.A31 0.011 0.008 4.27 1.38 TTTCTGTTAG SEQ 1 76 49A 27 21 E- [1.02- AAGCTGAGT ID 02 1.86] ATAGGCCTC No: AAACACATC 12 AGC[A/T]GCA TGACCCTGG GAGAAGAAA ATTTGCATG AGAACCTGT G chr 195040 T C UBR4 p.M84 0.011 0.008 4.24 1.38 CGAGCCAAG SEQ 1 62 4V 27 1 9 E- [1.03- ATAAGCGGC ID 02 1.86] ACGAAGCGC No: ATCTGAGCA 13 TCCA[T/C]GT TGACGCTCA ACTCCTGGA TGATCTGGA CAAAAAGCG AC chr 195458 G A EMC1 p.Y96 0.011 0.008 2.81 1.4[1 TGGCAAAAA SEQ 1 93 1Y 52 23 E- .05- CCAGGCCAA ID 02 1.89] AGAGGACGC No: TGCTGATTA 14 ACAC[G/A]TA GTCATAGTC ATCCTTCAG AACGTCAAA CTGCTTGGA TG chr 204428 C T PLA2G p.G45 0.009 0.006 3.60 1.41 TCTTTGGGTT SEQ 1 78 2D S 80 95 E- [1.03- GGCCTCTGC ID 02 1.95] CACCTAGTC No: CGCAGTGAC 15 AGC[C/T]GTA GGGCCAGTA GGAGAGGAT GGGCATTTT CCCAGTCAC T chr 238455 A T E2F2 p.A25 0.011 0.008 4.78 1.35 CCTTGACGG SEQ 1 89 7A 52 56 E- [1.01- CAATCACTG ID 02 1.81] TCTGCTCCTT No: AAAGTTGCC 16 AAC[A/T]GCA CGGATATCC TGGTAAGTC ACATAGGCC AGCGTAGGG C chr 244881 C T IFNLR p.E137 0.009 0.006 3.42 1.46 TGCAGGGGG SEQ 1 31 1 E 31 39 E- [1.04- GCAGCTGGT ID 02 2.05] ACGTGGCAT No: TGGCACTCA 17 GGAT[C/T]TC CTCCGTCTG GGTGAGCAC CAGGACAGG TGGGGCCGG CT chr 266088 A G UBXN p.G49 0.008 0.000 5.67 44.6 CGGGACTGG SEQ 1 83 11 0G 82 20 E- 2[23. GGCCGGGAC ID 34 65- CGGGACCGG NO: 84.2] GACTGGGGC 18 CGGG[A/G]CC GGGACCGGG ACAGGGACC AGGACTGAA TTTCAGGCT GG chr 266714 G C AIM1L p.P579 0.018 0.000 5.40 Inf TGAGGCAGC SEQ 1 13 R 63 00 E- AGGAGCACC ID 89 AGGGCCCTT NO: CACAACCTC 19 TTTT[G/C]GG GTGGTGGAC AAGGCAGCA GGAGCACCA GACCCCTGC AC chr 266716 A G AIM1L p.S508 0.025 0.000 4.40 127. CAGGAGCAC SEQ 1 25 S 98 21 E- 41[5 TGGACCCCT ID 88 5.94- GCACCACCT NO: 290. CCTTCTGGG 20 2] TGGG[A/G]G ATGAGGCAG CAGGAGCAC CAGGGCCCT TCACGACCT CTT chr 276743 G A SYTL1 p.A12 0.005 0.000 1.34 Inf CCCAGGAGA SEQ 1 34 6T 88 00 E- CCAGGCTCC ID 35 AGGCCACGA NO: CAGGGAGGC 21 TGAG[G/A]CT GCTGTGAAA GAGAAGGAA GAGGGGCCA GAGCCCAGG TG chr 289319 T A TAF12 p.T145 0.006 0.004 4.77 1.48 CCAGGGCTC SEQ 1 01 S 86 65 E- [1.01- TGGCATTTC ID 02 2.17] CTCACCTGTT NO: TGTGAGCTT 22 CTG[T/A]GGT GCAAGCTTT TTTGTAGGG TCGGATTTCT TCAGAGCCA chr 294477 G A TMEM p.C183 0.005 0.002 4.90 1.94 TACCCCGAC SEQ 1 92 200B C 64 91 E- [1.27- GCGGGGACG ID 03 2.97] GGTCCCAGA NO: TTTCTGGCTC 23 TGC[G/A]CAG CCTACGGCT CGGGGACTC CTAGGGCCG GGGCTGGGA A chr 314096 A G PUM1 p.A10 0.005 0.003 3.69 1.64 GGGGACCGT SEQ 1 34 97A 39 29 E- [1.07- CGTTCATGG ID 02 2.53] TGCACACCT No: CATCGATGA 24 GCAC[A/G]GC GCGCTCCGT ACGTGAGGC GTGAGTAAC ACACTTCTC CA chr 353707 C A DLGA p.G83 0.013 0.000 1.13 301. TGGCCAGGG SEQ 1 38 P3 W 24 04 E- 95[9 TACATCCTG ID 63 4.37- GGGAAGGTG No: 966. CTGCTACCC 25 13] CCCC[C/A]AA CCCCGGCCC CCGCTGGCC CTCCCTCAG GGCCTACCG AC chr 405332 C G CAP1 p.C236 0.029 0.000 5.89 Inf GACCCTCTG SEQ 1 89 W 90 00 E- CCGGATCAT ID 176 GTCCTCCTCC No: CCCTCCACC 26 ATG[C/G]CCC CCTCCTCCCC CAGTCTCTA CCATTTCAT GCTCATATG chr 407023 A G RLF p.T656 0.011 0.007 3.11 1.41 TGAATGACC SEQ 1 42 T 03 87 E- [1.04- AAGCCAAAG ID 02 1.9] GAGAGTCTC No: ATGAATATG 27 TCAC[A/G]TT CAGCAAATT AGAAGATTG CCACCTGCA AGACAGAGA TT chr 409289 A G ZFP69 p.Q43 0.006 0.004 1.30 1.67 AGTAAAACC SEQ 1 69 B 8R 86 12 E- [1.14- TTCAGCCAT ID 02 2.45] AGTACATAC No: CTAACTCAA 28 CACC[A/G]GA GAACTCATA CTGGAGAAA GACCATATA AATGTAAGG AA chr 476914 G C TAL1 p.A27 0.005 0.000 6.06 460. CTCCTTGGC SEQ 1 81 G 15 01 E- 35[6 GACGCCGTT ID 28 1.91- CAGCAGGAC No: 3423 CAGGTGCGG 29 .16] GGGG[G/C]CC ATGCTGGCC TCGGCCGCG TCCCGTCCCT CTAGCTGGG G chr 477168 C T STIL p.T126 0.009 0.006 4.22 1.41 AGAAGGTGC SEQ 1 89 2T 56 79 E- [1.02- CTACTGAAT ID 02 1.95] TCATGCTATT No: CATCTGCTTT 30 AG[C/T]GTTT CAGAAGGTT GCAAACTTT CAGGAAAAA TTGTAATGT chr 556436 T C USP24 p.T158 0.007 0.004 4.65 1.51 GTTCTAAGG SEQ 1 58 A 11 71 E- [1.03- TCTGAAAAC ID 02 2.22] TTACCAAGT No: CTTGCTAGG 31 TAGG[T/C]AG ATGCCAACA GGCATTTGC CTAGTGATT CTTCTCGCTT G chr 953304 C T SLC44 p.N42 0.006 0.004 2.78 1.57 TGGTGAGGA SEQ 1 40 A3 4N 62 23 E- [1.06- TTCCGAGAA ID 02 2.32] TCATTGTCAT No: GTACATGCA 32 AAA[C/T]GCA CTGAAAGAA CAGGTAAGG CTACCTCCT GATACACAG C chr 109792 T C CELSR p.L17P 0.009 0.000 2.93 21.0 CCGGCCACC SEQ 1 751 2 80 47 E- 6[13. GGCGTCCCC ID 32 61- CTCCCAACG No: 32.5 CCGCCGCCG 33 9] CCGC[T/C]GC TGCTGCTGTT GCTGCTGCT GCTGCCGCC GCCACTATT G chr 110302 A T EPS8L p.F55I 0.006 0.003 3.20 1.92 AAGTCTTGG SEQ 1 392 3 13 20 E- [1.28- CTCCACACC ID 03 2.88] CGGCCCTGT No: GCATCCATC 34 TCGA[A/T]CA GCTTCTGCA AGGCATCCT CGGGCCCCT GGACTCTCT GA chr 117122 T C IGSF3 p.K10 0.025 0.000 1.05 Inf CTTTCCTCTT SEQ 1 350 20E 25 00 E- CCTGTTCTTC ID 150 CAGGCCAGG No: GCTGCTCCTT 35 T[T/C]CCCCC CAGCTTTAG TCCTCAGGG AATACCAGG CCACAGCG chr 120054 G T HSD3 p.R71I 0.010 0.007 1.85 1.48 GTGCTGGAA SEQ 1 192 B1 54 17 E- [1.08- GGAGACATT ID 02 2.01] CTGGATGAG NO: CCATTCCTG 36 AAGA+G/T+A GCCTGCCAG GACGTCTCG GTCATCATC CACACCGCC TGT chr 144856 C T PDE4 p.A21 0.009 0.005 1.71 1.54 TTACCTCTGT SEQ 1 852 DIP 05A 07 92 E- [1.1- GCCTTGGGC ID 02 2.14] TTCAAGGCC NO: AGGGAAGCT 37 GCA[C/T]GCT GATCTCACA AGAGACACT ATCTTTTTGA CCAGCAGCT chr 144912 G T PDE4 p.P695 0.005 0.002 5.35 2.39 ACAGCCAGT SEQ 1 191 DIP H 15 16 E- [1.53- GGGGGTAAC ID 04 3.74] TTCAGCTTGT NO: TGGTTAGAG 38 ATG[G/T]GTG CTTGGGACA TCAGGGAGT CTCTCCCTCC TAAATATTG chr 144930 A C PDE4 p.S244 0.007 0.004 7.25 1.73 CTTTCTGTTG SEQ 1 977 DIP S 35 27 E- [1.19- TGGAGGGCT ID 03 2.5] AGCCTGGAC NO: GCTTGCATC 39 CAA[A/C]GAT TCCACAGAG GAACCAGGC GTCTCTTCCT CCATGCTTT chr 145537 C A ITGA10 p.S841 0.009 0.006 2.01 1.5[1 CAACTCTGG SEQ 1 513 R 31 22 E- .08- AGAACAGAA ID 02 2.09] AGGAAAATG NO: CTTACAATA 40 CGAG[C/A]CT GAGTCTCAT CTTCTCTAG AAACCTCCA CCTGGCCAG TC chr 149897 G A SF3B4 p.P245 0.007 0.005 2.66 1.52 GGGGTATCC SEQ 1 906 P 84 17 E- [1.06- CAGGTGGGA ID 02 2.18] GGGCTCCAG NO: GAGGTGGCA 41 CTGG[G/A]GG TGGGAAGGA GCCAGGAGG AGGCATGCC TATAGAGGA AA chr 152080 C T TCHH p.E180 0.010 0.000 2.67 Inf TTCCGTCAC SEQ 1 275 6E 54 00 E- GCTGTTGGG ID 63 GGCGCAGCT NO: GCTGTTCTTC 42 CCT[C/T]TCC TGGCGTAGC TGTTCCTCCT CGCGGAATT TTCTGTCAG chr 152082 T C TCHH p.K10 0.013 0.000 1.95 28.9 CTCAGCAGC SEQ 1 449 82E 24 46 E- 5[19. TGCTCTTCCT ID 48 46- CCTGCTGCA NO: 43.0 GCTCCTCTTC 43 5] CT[T/C]CCGA TATTGCCTCT CCAGCTCCT GGCGCCTTC TCGTCTCC chr 152083 G T TCHH p.P789 0.010 0.000 1.16 Inf CTCCTCGGC SEQ 1 327 Q 29 00 E- CCTCAGCTG ID 61 CCTCTCCCG NO: CTGCTCCCG 44 CAAT[G/T]GG GGCCTGGCC GACAGCCTC TGACGGCCC CTCTCGCTCT T chr 152083 G T TCHH p.R622 0.019 0.000 1.65 Inf TTCAGCAGC SEQ 1 829 S 36 00 E- TGCTGGCGC ID 115 CTCTCTTCCT NO: CCGGCTCCT 45 CGC[G/T]CTT CAGCCGCTG CTCGCGCCT CTCCTCCTGC TCGAGTCTC chr 152084 C G TCHH p.E494 0.014 0.000 4.56 164. AGTTGCTGC SEQ 1 213 Q 71 09 E- 52[7 TCGCGCCTC ID 70 5.16- TCCTGCTGCT NO: 360. CGCGCCTCT 46 14] CCT[C/G]CTC CTCGAGCTT CAGCCAACG TTCGCGCCT CTCCTCCTCC chr 152325 G C FLG2 p.T169 0.007 0.000 1.95 799. TAATCCATG SEQ 1 166 9R 11 01 E- 16[1 ATGATAGTG ID 41 08.8 GGCATGTCT No: 4- AGTGGTATC 47 5868 TCCT[G/C]TC .08] TGTCCATGA GTAGTTCCA TGTCTCTCA GGAACTATG GA chr 156011 G A UBQL p.P514 0.005 0.003 3.43 1.63 CTGTTGGAG SEQ 1 387 N4 P 15 16 E- [1.05- AAGATGTGG ID 02 2.54] CTGGCGTGG No: CTGGTGAGG 48 AAGT[G/A]G GGGCCTCGG GCGTAGACC CTGCGTTGC TGCCTGCTG AGG chr 156046 T C MEX3 p.G48 0.005 0.002 1.14 1.82 CGCAGATGC SEQ 1 473 A 5G 15 83 E- [1.17- GTACTGCAC ID 02 2.84] ACTCCATGC No: AGAACAGGT 49 TGTG[T/C]CC GCAGGGCAC AAGGGCGGC AGTCACTTC GCTCTCAAA GC chr 156438 C T MEF2 p.Q38 0.010 0.000 2.23 1107 GTTGCGGCT SEQ 1 664 D 5Q 05 01 E- .97[1 GCTGAGGCT ID 58 52.3 GCTGTGGCT No: 7- GTGGCTGCT 50 8056 GTGG[C/T]TG .7] CGGTGGCTG CTGCTGTGG AGGCTGTGG CTGCTGCGG CT chr 156521 C T IQGAP p.A56 0.005 0.003 3.53 1.6[1 TGCCTTTTGG SEQ 1 547 3 2T 88 68 E- .06- CTGCCACAA ID 02 2.42] GGAGGAGAT No: GGTACCGAG 51 GGG[C/T]GAC AGGGAGGCT GACATCATC TAGGCCAGC TGCAGGAAG C chr 156779 G A SH2D2 p.G29 0.006 0.003 1.36 1.7[1 CCACATAGA SEQ 1 118 A 3G 37 76 E- .14- TGTTGCTGG ID 02 2.53] GGGCTTCCC No: CAGGGCTGC 52 CCCG[G/A]CC CATGGCATA GAAAGCTAT GGGTTCATC AGGCTCATT GT chr 157069 G A ETV3L p.S32L 0.012 0.008 3.56 1.37 GATGAAGTG SEQ 1 134 25 99 E- [1.03- CCACAGCTG ID 02 1.82] GATCTGCCG No: GGAGCCTGG 53 GGAC[G/A]A CTCGGCTTT GTAGGCCCA ATCAGGGAA GGCCAACCC TGG chr 157738 G T FCRL2 p.L260 0.005 0.001 6.20 2.69 TATTTGCCG SEQ 1 309 M 21 94 E- [1.51- GCATCACTC ID 04 4.48] TCTTTCACA NO: GCTGGGATC 54 TCCA[G/T]CT CTGCTGACA GGGAACGCT GGGTTTTCTT TCCCATACT G chr 158669 G C OR6K2 p.A22 0.005 0.000 3.16 596. TGTGCGGCG SEQ 1 772 4G 39 01 E- 28[8 GCCTCCAGC ID 31 0.36- TGAATGAAT NO: 4424 ACGTAGAAT 55 .77] TACA[G/C]CC ACAATACCA TCGTAGGAC ATGAAGATG AGCATCACA GC chr 161336 A G C1orf1 p.Y10 0.005 0.003 2.89 1.66 GAGACCAGT SEQ 1 289 92 Y 64 41 E- [1.09- TCTGCAGAT ID 02 2.53] ACTTGGATG NO: AGAAAGCCT 56 TTTC[A/G]TA CTGTGGAGA GAAAGATAA GTAGCCCTA TGAGACTTC AA chr 161476 C T FCGR p.S69S 0.005 0.003 4.84 1.61 CTGTGACTC SEQ 1 227 2A 15 20 E- [1.04- TGACATGCC ID 02 2.5] AGGGGGCTC NO: GCAGCCCTG 57 AGAG[C/T]GA CTCCATTCA GTGGTTCCA CAATGGGAA TCTCATTCCC A chr 161641 G A FCGR p.Q63 0.010 0.003 2.83 3.19 CTGTGCTGA SEQ 1 237 2B Q 78 40 E- [2.33- AACTCGAGC ID 10 4.37] CCCAGTGGA NO: TCAACGTGC 58 TCCA[G/A]GA GGACTCTGT GACTCTGAC ATGCCGGGG GACTCACAG CC chr 169697 A G SELE p.L404 0.005 0.003 3.16 1.67 TCCCCTGTG SEQ 1 268 L 15 10 E- [1.07- GGGCCACAT ID 02 2.59] TGGAGCCTT NO: TTGGATCCC 59 TTCA[A/G]CA CAAAACCCT GCTCACAGG AGAACTCAC AGCTGGACC CA chr 170115 G C METT p.D18 0.000 0.000 1.00 1[0.3 GGGAGCCCA SEQ 1 300 L11B H 74 74 E+00 1- TTTTGCCTTT ID 3.22] AGATCCCGC NO: TGGCAGAAG 60 ACC[G/C]ACG ATGAACTCT GTAGACATA GCATGTCTTT TATCCTTCA chr 170129 T C METT p.M66 0.008 0.006 1.44 1.29 AAATTGTAC SEQ 1 701 L11B T 82 84 E- [0.92- GCTTTAACA ID 01 1.82] AGCCAAGTC NO: ATCAATGGT 61 GAGA[T/C]GC AGTTCTATG CCAGAGCTA AACTTTTCTA CCAAGAAGT A chr 170136 T C METT p.L277 0.010 0.010 1.00 0.99 GGCTTCCCA SEQ 1 876 L11B P 78 87 E+00 [0.73- GAGCAGTGC ID 1.35] ATCCCCGTG NO: TGGATGTTC 62 GCAC[T/C]GC ACAGCGACA GACACTCCT GAAAAAGCA GTGGGAATG AA chr 176563 G A PAPP p.V34 0.008 0.005 2.96 1.51 GCGGGATGC SEQ 1 779 A2 7M 09 37 E- [1.06- TCGCTTCTTC ID 02 2.15] TTCTCCCTCT NO: GCACCGACC 63 GC[G/A]TGAA GAAAGCCAC CATCTTGATT AGCCACAGT CGCTACCA chr 176833 T C ASTN1 p.E129 0.006 0.003 1.03 1.72 TCATTCTGG SEQ 1 427 3G 62 85 E- [1.17- CAGCAGCTC ID 02 2.54] CCTGGCCTT NO: ATGGTGCTA 64 GATC[T/C]CT TTGCTGTCCC CATAGTCGT TGTAGGGGA TACTCAGGG T chr 176833 C T ASTN1 p.T127 0.006 0.004 4.58 1.52 CATAGTCGT SEQ 1 480 5T 13 04 E- [1.02- TGTAGGGGA ID 02 2.28] TACTCAGGG NO: TCTGCTCCTC 65 ACA[C/T]GTC TTCCTGAGG TCCCGGCTG AGCTCCGCC CAGTCAAGT C chr 176852 T G ASTN1 p.M10 0.006 0.003 4.39 1.54 GAGATGGTG SEQ 1 074 95L 13 99 E- [1.03- GTGAGCTGC ID 02 2.3] TTGTCCGGC No: ACCTGAGAT 66 GGCA[T/G]TG CACAAGGAG ACTTTGCTCC AGAGATGAT GTCGTCCAC A chr 186276 G A PRG4 p.E473 0.006 0.000 3.12 Inf TACACCCAC SEQ 1 268 K 62 00 E- CACTCCCAA ID 39 GGAGCCTGC No: ACCCACCAC 67 CAAG[G/A]A GCCTGCACC CACCACTCC CAAAGAGCC TGCACCCAC TGC chr 198222 C G NEK7 p.R35 0.012 0.008 2.08 1.42 CTTACGACC SEQ 1 215 G 25 67 E- [1.07- GGATATGGG ID 02 1.89] CTATAATAC No: ATTAGCCAA 68 CTTT[C/G]GA ATAGAAAAG AAAATTGGT CGCGGACAA TTTAGTGAA GT chr 201178 A G IGFN1 p.E155 0.009 0.000 6.26 Inf GGGAGTAAG SEQ 1 688 6G 80 00 E- GCAGGTTTT ID 47 ACGGATGGT No: TTAGGAGGT 69 TCTG[A/G]AG AAATGGGGT CAGTGAATA AGGCAGGTT ATAGGAAGG AT chr 201180 A G IGFN1 p.N20 0.008 0.000 6.77 476. TAGGGATGG SEQ 1 217 66D 58 02 E- 2[65. TTTAGGGAG ID 40 22- TTCTGTAGA No: 3476 AATGGGGTC 70 .77] AGTG[A/G]AT GAGGCAGGT TATAGGAAG GATTTAGGG GCTCCTAAG GG chr 203194 C T CHIT1 p.E74 0.006 0.003 9.72 1.74 CACATCTTCT SEQ 1 834 K 62 80 E- [1.18- TCAGGCCAT ID 03 2.58] TGAACTCCT No: GGTAGAGAG 71 TCT[C/T]GTC ATTCCACTC AGTGGTGCT CAGCTGGTG GTTGGTCAT G chr 203691 A G ATP2B p.K94 0.005 0.002 4.39 2.02 ACTTAACCT SEQ 1 612 4 0R 15 55 E- [1.3- CCAGTGCTT ID 03 3.15] CTCCTCTCCC No: CACTAGGTG 72 AGA[A/G]ATT CTTTGATATT GATAGTGGG AGGAAGGCA CCTCTACAT chr 204923 G A NFAS p.D81 0.005 0.000 3.59 Inf CCACTGGAC SEQ 1 359 C N 64 00 E- ACGAAACAG ID 34 CAGATTCTT No: CAACATCGC 73 CAAG[G/A]A CCCCCGGGT GTCCATGAG GAGGAGGTC TGGGACCCT GGT chr 204923 C T NFAS p.R115 0.005 0.000 1.05 Inf GCGGCCGGA SEQ 1 461 C C 39 00 E- GGAATATGA ID 32 GGGGGAATA No: TCAGTGCTT 74 CGCC[C/T]GC AACAAATTT GGCACGGCC CTGTCCAAT AGGATCCGC CT chr 206658 G A IKBKE p.T514 0.010 0.006 2.08 1.47 AGCTAGCGG SEQ 1 569 T 05 84 E- [1.07- AGGTCCTCT ID 02 2.02] CCAGATGCT No: CCCAAAATA 75 TCAC[G/A]GA GACCCAGGA GAGCCTGAG CAGCCTGAA CCGGGAGCT GG chr 222712 G T HHIPL p.L487 0.010 0.006 1.35 1.71 ACTGACTTC SEQ 1 108 2 M 78 33 E- [1.26- CCCACTGCA ID 03 2.32] TGGCCATAA No: GCATAGATT 76 GGCA[G/T]AA CATCATCTG TCCAGGAGA GAGGAAAGA GAGTGAGTG TC chr 227843 T A ZNF67 p.F413 0.009 0.000 1.18 1063 GGAGAGAAA SEQ 1 024 8 Y 56 01 E- [146. CCCTACAAA ID 55 01- TGTGAAGAA No: 7739 TGTGGCAGA 77 .02] ACCT[T/A]TA CTCAATTCTC AAACCTCAC TCAGCATAA AAGAATTCA T chr 231057 C T TTC13 p.G55 0.012 0.000 5.31 Inf TTTCTCAAA SEQ 1 248 3D 99 00 E- ATATTCTAG ID 75 GTATCTCAT No: GTTGATCAC 78 CTGA[C/T]CC CTATAAGGC AAAAATAAT AAAATTAAG AATATTTTTA T chr 236144 G T NID1 p.S107 0.005 0.002 8.73 1.93 AGAGATGCA SEQ 1 919 3S 15 68 E- [1.24- CACACATAT ID 03 3] TTACACAAA No: GATACCCTC 79 TCAC[G/T]GA ATCCGTTAC AATGCCTCT GGGATTCAC CAAGTCAGT CT chr 236433 T G ERO1L p.K63 0.005 0.003 3.47 1.62 ACCTTACCTT SEQ 1 208 B N 88 65 E- [1.07- GTAATAACG ID 02 2.44] AAAATAGTC No: TCTCTCTTGC 80 AA[T/G]TTTT TTATTTTGGG GAAGATTTT GTAGGTATT GAAGTTAT chr 246907 A G SCCP p.I183 0.005 0.002 2.17 1.91 TCTTTTAGGT SEQ 1 410 DH V 21 73 E- [1.08- ACTTTGACT ID 02 3.17] GCTGTGGAA No: AGTTTCCTG 81 ACT[A/G]TAC ATTCAGGAC CTGAGGTTG GTTTTTTGGT TTGTCTTGT chr 248436 G A OR2T3 p.N28 0.008 0.002 5.54 3.43 CTCCCTTCAC SEQ 1 265 3 4N 33 45 E- [2.4- CTCACTGTTC ID 09 4.9] TTCACACTG No: TAGATGAGG 82 GG[G/A]TTTA GTAAAGGGG TGAACATAG TATAGAAGG CTGACACAA chr 592504 G A ANKR p.F257 0.005 0.003 2.59 1.66 TGGCTCTCA SEQ 10 7 D16 F 39 25 E- [1.08- CATCTACAT ID 02 2.56] CGACGCCAA No: GTTCAGAGA 83 CCAA[G/A]A ATCGGATGG CTTCGTCCTG CCCTGTGAC AGCTGCCCT GT chr 597922 C G FBXO p.A96 0.005 0.003 1.08 1.79 AGCGCACTG SEQ 10 2 18 3A 64 16 E- [1.17- TGGAGAACA ID 02 2.73] TCGTACTGC No: CCCGGCATG 84 AGGC[C/G]CT GCTCTTCCTC GTCTTCTGA GGACAAGGC GCACGTTCT C chr 777195 C T ITIH2 p.N44 0.006 0.003 2.30 1.61 AACTAAAAC SEQ 10 8 1N 37 96 E- [1.09- TGTCAAAAA ID 02 2.4] TTCAGAAAA No: ACGTTAAGG 85 AGAA[C/T]AT CCAAGACAA TATCTCCTTG TTCAGTTTG GGCATGGGA T chr 210975 G A NEBL p.S885 0.006 0.004 3.59 1.55 TGACCTGTC SEQ 10 46 F 37 13 E- [1.04- GTCTCCGAG ID 02 2.3] ACCTGTACC No: GAAAGTACT 86 GCTG[G/A]AA TGGGATCGA GACCAGTGT CGCCTATAG TGACTCGCC TT chr 345587 C T PARD p.G10 0.005 0.002 1.96 1.74 CTAGCGTTG SEQ 10 15 3 17R 15 97 E- [1.12- AGAGCCATG ID 02 2.7] GAACCTTCA No: TAAGAAGAA 87 ACTC[C/T]CC CATACATTA ACTCATCAT CACAGCCAA ATGTCCGAT GA chr 353221 C T CUL2 p.M34 0.009 0.004 5.26 2.06 TACCATGCA SEQ 10 99 8I 778 78 E- [1.37- CTTCCAAAA ID 04 2.98] CTGACTCCA No: CAAATAGTG 88 TTGG[C/T]AT CTAAAAATG AAATATAAG TACAAAACC ACATTTTAA GA chr 454730 C G C10orf p.M14 0.019 0.000 7.99 2197 CAGGCATCC SEQ 10 44 10 5I 36 01 E- .65[3 TGGCTTCAC ID 114 05.6 AGAGCCTCC No: 9- CTCTGGGGG 89 1579 CCCC[C/G]AT 9.34] GGGCTTGCT GCTGTCCAT CTGTCTATGT GGACCCCAG A chr 469992 G A GPRIN p.R110 0.007 0.005 3.98 1.46 AATGTGTCC SEQ 10 09 2 Q 84 38 E- [1.02- ACCATGGGC ID 02 2.09] GGCAGTGAC No: CTGTGTCGC 90 CTGC[G/A]GG CCCCTAGTG CTGCTGCTA TGCAGAGGA GCCATTCAG AC chr 469993 A G GPRIN p.A17 0.010 0.003 4.09 2.99 AGCCAGGTG SEQ 10 90 2 0A 29 47 E- [2.17- GTACTTCTG ID 09 4.12] GCCAGGGTG No: GCCAGGCCC 91 CTGC[A/G]GG CCTGGAAAG GGACCTGGC TCCTGAGGA TGAGACTTC TA chr 470872 G C LOC10 p.L172 0.006 0.003 3.19 1.88 GGATTGTGC SEQ 10 99 0996758 L 62 53 E- [1.27- TCATCTGGG ID 03 2.78] TCATTGCCT No: GTGTCCTCTC 92 CCT[G/C]CCC TTCCTGGCC AACAGCATC CTGGAGAAT GTCTTCCAC A chr 518279 A G FAM2 p.P13P 0.022 0.002 5.96 9.18 TGCAGATGA SEQ 10 00 1A 30 48 E- +7.2- ACCGGACGA ID 49 11.7 CCCCCGACC No: AGGAGCTGG 93 CGCC[A/G]GC GTCGGAGCC CGTGTGGGA GCGGCCGTG GTCGGTGGA GG chr 734648 G A CDH2 p.E960 0.008 0.004 2.90 1.94 GGTGGTCAC SEQ 10 12 3 K 133 201 E- [1.24- CACCACCGA ID 03 2.91] GCTGGACCG No: CGAGCGCAT 94 CGCG[G/A]A GTACCAGCT GCGGGTGGT GGCCAGTGA TGCAGGCAC GCC chr 750106 G C MRPS p.T130 0.008 0.004 8.85 1.74 CTAAAGTCA SEQ 10 35 16 R 458 873 E- [1.13- GCTCATTTAT ID 03 2.59] GTTTCTGTA No: GCCTCTGTA 95 TCT[G/C]TAG CTTCTGCATC TGTTTTCTGA GAAGCTAAC AGGACTTC chr 795887 G A DLG5 p.A74 0.007 0.004 8.01 1.69 GGGACCCTT SEQ 10 06 1A 35 35 E- [1.17- CTTTAGCGG ID 03 2.45] CAGGGCTTC No: CAGGCAGCA 96 CAGC[G/A]GC AGCATACAC TCCATTCTCC AGACTGATG CCACTGTCT G chr 995312 C T SFRP5 p.D10 0.010 0.006 2.15 1.46 CAGACGGGC SEQ 10 84 3N 05 89 E- [1.07- GCAAAGAGC ID 02 2.01] GAGCACAGG No: AAGACCTGC 97 GTAT[C/T]CG AGTGGCAGC GCTTGGCCA GCAGCGGCA GCCAGCTGC TC chr 999696 A G R3HC p.L593 0.006 0.003 2.22 1.91 TGTTTAACG SEQ 10 50 C1L L 86 60 E- [1.3- ATGATGGTG ID 03 2.81] ACTGCCTGG No: ATCCACGTC 98 TTCT[A/G]CA AGAGGTATG TTTAATTGA AATTGCTTG ATGCTTAGT TA chr 102770 A G PDZD p.R777 0.011 0.000 2.35 126. ACTTGCCTT SEQ 10 315 7 R 03 09 E- 17[4 GACCCCGGC ID 44 5.36- TGCTGCGGC No: 350. TGCGGCTGC 99 99] GGCT[A/G]CG GCTGCGGCT ACGGCTCTG AGCCCGGCC CCGGATCTG GC chr 104230 G A THEM p.T139 0.010 0.007 4.44 1.39 AGTTCTTGCT SEQ 10 587 180 T 54 62 E- [1.02- GTGCCTGTG ID 02 1.89] CCTCTATGA No: TGGCTTCCT 100 GAC[G/A]CTC GTGGACCTG CACCACCAT GCCTTGCTG GCCGACCTG G chr 125780 G C CHST1 p.P453 0.008 0.000 3.19 793. GCTCCTTCTG SEQ 10 760 5 P 58 01 E- 53[1 CCAGGGGCC ID 47 08.6 AGCTCGGGG No: 9- GGTACGGGG 101 5793 GGG[G/C]GG .56] GGTACACAC AGGCATGGC GTTGTTGAG GGTGTTGTT GT chr 135106 G A TUBG p.H36 0.005 0.003 2.61 1.66 CCTGCGCCT SEQ 10 137 CP2 0H 39 26 E- [1.08- GGCTGTCCC ID 02 2.55] CTGTGTAGC No: TGAAGCTCC 102 TGTC[G/A]TG GAGCAGGCT CAGCGTGGA CCCCCCAAG ACATTCGCC TT chr 135368 G C SYCE1 p.V28 0.008 0.005 2.96 1.51 GGCCAGCCT SEQ 10 906 9V 09 37 E- [1.06- CTTCCTCTTG ID 02 2.15] TGTGCTCTG No: GGCTTGGGC 103 AGG[G/C]ACT TGCATTCCA TGCTTTTCCA GCTCTTCCTT CAGCCTGG chr 394511 C T PKP3 p.A73 0.006 0.000 6.27 Inf AGCCGCGGC SEQ 11 A 86 00 E- ACAACGGGG ID 11 CCGCTGAGC No: CCGAGCCTG 104 AGGC[C/T]GA GACTGCCAG AGGTAGGCG GTGGGGACA GCGGCGGGG AT chr 610300 A G PHRF p.S145 0.006 0.003 2.18 1.93 CACAGGGGT SEQ 11 1 5G 86 57 E- [1.3- CAGGCAGGT ID 03 2.85] GTTCTCCGA No: GCTGCCCTTT 105 CCC[A/G]GTC ACGTGCTTC CGGAACCCG GGTTCCCAG ACACAGACC C chr 614967 C G IRF7 p.R88 0.005 0.000 4.94 Inf GCGCTCCGC SEQ 11 T 88 00 E- AGTCTCAGC ID 32 CTCGGGGGG No: CGGGCCACC 106 TCCC[C/G]TG CTGCTAGGC GGCCACCTG CCGCGGGCC ACAGCCCAG GC chr 764414 A G TALDO1 p.K32 0.006 0.003 1.66 1.71 CTCTCTGAC SEQ 11 1R 13 59 E- [1.14- GGGATCCGC ID 02 2.56] AAGTTTGCC No: GCTGATGCA 107 GTGA[A/G]GC TGGAGCGGA TGCTGACAG TGAGTGTTG TGTGTGGGT AC chr 101685 G A MUC6 p.P198 0.011 0.000 1.29 Inf GGATAGGTA SEQ 11 4 3S 27 00 E- GTGGTGGTC ID 67 TGGAAGGAT NO: GTTGCAGTC 108 ATAG[G/A]AC CTGTGGAAG AGAAGGGAC TGCTCCCTGT AGGTGGGGA G chr 101708 G A MUC6 p.P190 0.007 0.001 3.28 4.53 GGTAGGGAT SEQ 11 5 6S 84 74 E- [3.11- GTAGAAGTT ID 11 6.59] TTGGCCGTG NO: CTAAATGAG 109 CTTG[G/A]GG ATTGGCTGG TCCCACTGG TGGTCGGTG TCATTGGTG GG chr 101754 G A MUC6 p.T175 0.025 0.000 8.09 Inf GGTAGAAGT SEQ 11 3 3I 25 00 E- TGAGGTGAC ID 151 TTCAGGATG No: GTGTGTGGA 110 GGAA[G/A]T GTGTGAATG TAGGGATGT AGAGGTTTT GGCCGTGCT AAA chr 101776 T C MUC6 p.Q16 0.009 0.000 1.12 180. GGGATGTAG SEQ 11 1 80Q 80 05 E- 29[7 AGGTTTTGG ID 51 6.39- CTGTGTTTA No: 425. ATGAGCTCA 111 47] GGGC[T/C]TG GCTGGTCCC GCTGGTGGT CAGCGTCAT TGTTGGCGC TG chr 101778 C T MUC6 p.T167 0.009 0.000 1.86 27.7 TTAATGAGC SEQ 11 5 2T 80 36 E- 8[17. TCAGGGCTT ID 36 86- GGCTGGTCC NO: 43.2 CGCTGGTGG 112 4] TCAG[C/T]GT CATTGTTGG CGCTGTGTG GGTGGACCC TGTGGCCTT GA chr 101791 G A MUC6 p.T163 0.014 0.000 6.50 51.6 GGCAGAAGT SEQ 11 2 0I 95 29 E- 5[26. GGCCATCTG ID 49 44- TGCATGGGT NO: 100. AGGGGTGAT 113 88] GACT[G/A]TG TGAGTACTT GGAGTCACC AAAGAGGTG GAGAAAGGT GG chr 101797 C G MUC6 p.Q16 0.007 0.000 2.56 15.7 AAGAGGTGG SEQ 11 4 09H 60 49 E- 2[10. AGAAAGGTG ID 23 08- GAACGTGAG NO: 24.5 TGGGAAGTG 114 1] TGGT[C/G]TG AGGGTGTGA TGGGGTTGG ATAGGTAGT GGTGGTCTT GA chr 102362 G A MUCC6 p.T113 0.009 0.007 4.58 1.4[1 GGCCTCCTG SEQ 11 2 8M 80 03 E- .02- TGTGTACTG ID 02 1.92] GTACTCGCC NO: ATGGCCGTC 115 CTGC[G/A]TG TGCGTGTTG TAGAAGCCG CAGTAGATG GCTGGGAGG AA chr 109353 A C MUC2 p.K17 0.007 0.000 4.33 94.8 CACCACTAC SEQ 11 7 86Q 11 08 E- 1[]28. GATGACCCC ID 27 87- AACCCCAAC No: 311. ACCCACCAG 116 37 CACA[A/C]AG AGTACAACC GTGACACCC ATCACCACC ACAACTACG GT chr 126418 C T MUC5 p.T202 0.006 0.003 1.15 1.69 ACTCCAGAG SEQ 11 7 B 6M 62 93 E- [1.14- ACTGCCCAC ID 02 2.49] ACCTCCACA NO: GTGCTTACC 117 GCCA[C/T]GG CCACCACAA CTGGGGCCA CCGGCTCTG TGGCCACCC CC chr 126996 G A MUC5 p.T395 0.006 0.004 4.28 1.52 CCAGTGGTA SEQ 11 9 B 3T 86 53 E- [1.03- CTCCCCCAT ID 02 2.24] CACTGATCA NO: CCACGGCCA 118 CTAC[G/A]AT CACGGCCAC CGGCTCCAC CACCAACCC CTCCTCAAC TC chr 127131 A G MUC5 p.T440 0.014 0.000 2.18 Inf CGACCTGGA SEQ 11 3 B 1T 95 00 E- TCCTCACAG ID 89 AGCTGACCA NO: CAGCAGCCA 119 CTAC[A/G]AC TGCAGCCAC TGGCCCCAC GGCCACCCC GTCCTCCAC CC chr 160615 G A KRTA p.G11 0.005 0.000 6.34 Inf CACAGCCGG SEQ 11 0 P5-1 0G 39 00 E- AACCACAGC ID 31 CACCCTTGG NO: ATCCCCCAC 120 AAGA[G/A]C CACAGCCCC CCTTGGAGC CCCCACAGG AGCCACAAC CCC chr 160640 G A KRTA p.S26S 0.004 0.000 2.01 42.7 AGCCAGAAC SEQ 11 2 P5-1 64 10 E- 7[16. CTCCACAGC ID 11 27- CAGAGCCAC NO: 112. AGCCCCCAC 121 48] AGCC[G/A]G AGCCACAGC CCCCACAGC CGGAGCCAC AGCCCCCAC AGC chr 161943 A G KRTA p.C17 0.012 0.000 1.27 1373 AGCCCCCAC SEQ 11 0 P5-2 C 25 01 E- .66[1 AGCCAGAGC ID 71 89.7 CACAACCCC NO: 1- CACAGCTGG 122 9946 AGCC[A/G]CA .24] GCCCCCACA GCCGGAGCC ACAGCCTCT GGAGCAGCC AC chr 162916 G A KRTA p.C151 0.010 0.000 5.33 1023 AGCAGGGCT SEQ 11 3 P5-3 C 29 01 E- .61[1 TACAGCAGC ID 58 40.8 TGGACTGGG NO: 5- AGCAGCTGG 123 7439 GCTT[G/A]CA .08] GCAGCTGGA CTGGCAGCA GGATGACCC ACAGCCTGA GG chr 162936 C A KRTA p.K84 0.013 0.000 1.22 Inf AGCAGCAGA SEQ 11 4 P5-3 N 48 00 E- CGGGCACAC ID 80 AGCAGCTGG NO: AGCCACAGC 124 CCCC[C/A]TT GGAGCCTCC ACAGGAGCC ACAGCCCCC CTTGCAGCC CC chr 164288 A G KRTA p.S148 0.011 0.000 1.28 Inf TACAGCAGC SEQ 11 0 P5-4 S 27 00 E- TGGACTGGC ID 67 AGCAGGATG NO: ACCCACAGC 125 CTGA[A/G]GA GAAGCAGCA GGGCTTACA GCAGCTGCA CTGGGAGCA GC chr 165135 A G KRTA p.R97 0.027 0.000 1.04 Inf CTGTGGCAA SEQ 11 9 P5-5 G 94 00 E- AGGGGGCTG ID 166 TGGCTCTTG No: CGGGGGCTC 126 CAAG[A/G]G AGGCTGTGT CTCCTGTGG GGTGTCCAA GGGGGCCTG TGG chr 216143 G A IGF2 p.Q33 0.016 0.000 9.89 19.8 CGTCTAAGT SEQ 11 0 X 68 90 E- [11.5- AGCTCGCCT ID 16 34.2] TTGCGGCCC No: ACCCAAAAT 127 ATCT[G/A]GA TAATGGTTA CCCCGTCCT CAGTGCGTT GGACTTGCA TA chr 438911 G A OR52B p.T139 0.005 0.002 2.82 1.79 CAGAGAGAC SEQ 11 0 4 I 21 91 E- [1.01- AGTCACACA ID 02 2.96] AATTTTCTTG No: ATCAGAGCA 128 TTT[G/A]TAA GAATGGTGG TGTACCTCA GTGGGTAGC ATATGGCAA T chr 544404 C T OR51 p.L204 0.008 0.005 1.36 1.57 CTGTGCTGA SEQ 11 0 Q1 F 58 50 E- [1.11- CATCAGGCT ID 02 2.2] CAACAGCTG No: GTATGGATT 129 TGCT[C/T]TT GCCTTGCTC ATTATTATC GTGGATCCT CTGCTCATT GT chr 691328 T C OR2D p.S151 0.008 0.004 1.80 1.67 AGTATGAAG SEQ 11 1 2 G 133 873 E- [1.07- GTGGTGTCT ID 02 2.5] ACCACAGAC No: ACCAGAATG 130 CCAC[T/C]GG TCCATGATC CTGTTGCCA GCTGGACAC ACACTTTCC AG chr 694291 C T OR2D p.S228 0.014 0.010 5.32 1.47 ATCTTTTCAA SEQ 11 5 3 F 71 03 E- [1.13- TGGGCGTGG ID 03 1.92] TAATCCTCCT No: GGCCCCTGT 131 CT[C/T]CCTG ATTCTTGGTT CTTATTGGA ATATTATCTC CACTGTT chr 122463 G A MICAL p.R559 0.008 0.005 2.51 1.5[1 CGCAGTGGG SEQ 11 55 2 Q 33 56 E- .06- TTGGCCCTG ID 02 2.13] TGTGCCATC No: ATCCACCGC 132 TTCC[G/A]GC CTGAGCTCA TGTGAGTCT GGGGCCCAG GCTGGCCCC TG chr 341650 G A NAT10 p.A98 0.008 0.003 5.80 2.17 TGAAGAGTG SEQ 11 53 3T 133 762 E- [1.39- GAATGAAGT ID 04 3.26] TTTGAACAA No: AGCTGGGCC 133 GAAC[G/A]CC TCGATCATC AGCCTGAAA AGGTGAGGG CCCAGGGTC TG chr 354560 T A PAMR p.D53 0.007 0.005 3.47 1.49 CAAGCCCTC SEQ 11 85 1 4V 60 11 E- [1.04- TCTTACCTGT ID 02 2.14] AGGCTCTGG No: ATGGTCTTCT 134 CA[T/A]CCCG GTCATCATC CCGGTAGAA TTTCCCCAA AACAACTTT chr 474696 G T RAPSN p.N88 0.005 0.002 5.29 1.96 TCTTGTGAA SEQ 11 31 K 15 63 E- [1.26- ACTCGCACA ID 03 3.06] GCTTCTCGTT No: GCTGCGTGC 135 CAG[G/T]TTC AGGTAGCTC TCCAGGAGG AAGTCGGCA TCCTCCAGC T chr 619595 A C SCGB1 p.N20 0.005 0.002 1.60 2.21 TCCTTACAC SEQ 11 31 D1 T 15 33 E- [1.42- AAATTATAT ID 03 3.46] TTTTATTCTT No: TTGCTCCAG 136 CAA[A/C]TGC AGTGGTCTG CCAAGCTCT TGGTTCTGA AATCACAGG C chr 622880 G A AHNA p.P462 0.007 0.004 2.38 1.54 GGACATCAA SEQ 11 14 K 5P 60 94 E- [1.07- TGTCCACTTT ID 02 2.22] GGGGTCCCT No: GATGTCAAC 137 TTC[G/A]GGG CCCTTGAGG TCGCCTTCC ACTTTGGGC AGAGAAATG T chr 624339 C T METT p.R38 0.005 0.002 2.15 1.92 ACTGGCTGA SEQ 11 12 L12 W 21 72 E- [1.08- TAGTTGCCT ID 02 3.18] GGCGGACCG No: CTGTCTCTG 138 GGAT[C/T]GG CTGCATGCC CAGCCTCGT TTGGGCACT GTCCCCACC TT chr 624443 C G UBXN p.E249 0.012 0.008 3.42 1.38 CTGAGCAAT SEQ 11 84 1 Q 25 88 E- [1.04- TGCACAGGG ID 02 1.84] TCCTGGCCC No: CCACCTAGT 139 TCCT[C/G]CC CACGGTGGA GCTCCACAT AGAGCCTCA CAGCTGCCA GC chr 627608 C T SLC22 p.R422 0.005 0.003 1.35 1.75 GGCCTTTTCC SEQ 11 00 A8 Q 88 38 E- [1.15- ACCTCTGGC ID 02 2.64] TCCTGCTTTG No: GCTTCTTTGC 140 C[C/T]GCAGG GACCTAGGG ACAGAGAGC TAAGGAAAA GCCCTGGG chr 634874 G C RTN3 p.D50 0.010 0.007 4.56 1.38 ATTGGGAGA SEQ 11 75 1H 54 68 E- [1.01- AATCACAGA ID 02 1.87] AGCTGATAG No: TTCTGGTGA 141 GTCT[G/C]AT GACACAGTA ATAGAGGAC ATCACAGCA GATACATCA TT 636815 chr C T RCOR p.T271 0.009 0.004 1.13 2.3[1 GGAGCGTGA SEQ 11 04 2 T 31 07 E- .65- GGTTGGCAA ID 05 3.2] GGTCCGGGC No: TTCCTGACA 142 CTGC[C/T]GT GAGGCCTTC AGGGCTCAG GTACATGCC CTTGGGTGG GC chr 640518 G A GPR13 p.G17 0.006 0.000 6.66 48.8 CTGTGAGGA SEQ 11 89 7 G 04 10 E- 3[20. CAAGATGTT ID 15 22- ACGTAGTCA No: 117. AGGCACAGC 143 93] TGGG[G/A]CC AACGGTGGC CCTGGAAGG CAGAGGCAG GTACCCCTG GC chr 640832 G T ESRRA p.R376 0.018 0.000 4.17 28.9 GAAGCCGGC SEQ 11 93 L 87 67 E- [20.8 CGGGCTGGC ID 69 7- CCCGGAGGG NO: 40] GGTGCTGAG 144 CGGC[G/T]GC GGGCGGGCA GGCTGCTGC TCACGCTAC CGCTCCTCC GC chr 640833 G A ESRRA p.A37 0.016 0.000 5.66 27.1 GCCGGGCTG SEQ 11 00 8A 91 63 E- 7[19. GCCCCGGAG ID 61 38- GGGGTGCTG NO: 38.0 AGCGGCGGC 145 8] GGGC[G/A]G GCAGGCTGC TGCTCACGC TACCGCTCC TCCGCCAGA CAG chr 649850 G A SLC22 p.A18 0.005 0.003 4.82 1.61 GGTCCTACC SEQ 11 72 A20 4A 15 20 E- [1.04- TGCAGCTGG ID 02 2.51] CAGCTTCGG NO: GGGCCGCCA 146 CAGC[G/A]TA TTTCAGCTCC TTCAGTGCC TATTGCGTCT TCCGGTTCC chr 724060 C T ARAP1 p.V12 0.005 0.002 2.50 2.09 CAAGCCCAG SEQ 11 46 251 15 47 E- [1.34- CGTCACCCA ID 03 3.25] CCTGCCTCCT NO: CCCTCTCGTT 147 GA[C/T]CTCA AAGCAGGTC CAATAGTCC TTCTCCCTGA TGCCCACG chr 738439 C T C2CD p.R371 0.009 0.006 4.99 1.41 CAGTTGAAG SEQ 11 93 3 R 31 62 E- [1.02- GGAGGAGGT ID 02 1.96] GATCTTCAA NO: TGTGGTCTTT 148 AAA[C/T]CGA TTCCTAGAA AAGGCTCTG ATCCTAAGG TGTGGAAAA A chr 740535 G A PGM2 p.T522 0.005 0.002 4.03 2.06 ATATCCAGT SEQ 11 73 L1 I 15 51 E- [1.32- GGTAACGTC ID 03 3.21] CCGTACATG NO: CAATATAGC 149 AAAT[G/A]TT CCACAAAAT TTTGGATATT CTTTTGGAG AATCAAAAT T chr 747175 A T NEU3 p.X46 0.006 0.004 2.55 1.61 CCAGCCCTG SEQ 11 37 2Y 62 13 E- [1.09- GTAGGAACC ID 02 2.37] CAAGCCAAT No: TCAAAAGCA 150 ATTA[A/T]TT GGCTTAGGA CCCAATTTC CATAGATGC AAATGGCAG TT chr 755093 C T DGAT p.F247 0.012 0.000 1.70 Inf ACTCCTTTG SEQ 11 32 2 F 25 00 E- GAGAGAATG ID 73 AAGTGTACA No: AGCAGGTGA 151 TCTT[C/T]GA GGAGGGCTC CTGGGGCCG ATGGGTCCA GAAGAAGTT CC chr 755093 C T DGAT p.G25 0.018 0.000 1.61 Inf GAGAGAATG SEQ 11 41 2 0G 14 00 E- AAGTGTACA ID 108 AGCAGGTGA No: TCTTCGAGG 152 AGGG[C/T]TC CTGGGGCCG ATGGGTCCA GAAGAAGTT CCAGAAATA CA chr 768348 C A CAPN p.L632 0.007 0.004 9.41 1.67 GCAGCCCAG SEQ 11 87 5 I 60 56 E- [1.16- CAACCTGCC ID 03 2.41] AGGCACTGT No: GGCCGTGCA 153 CATT[C/A]TC AGCAGCACC TCCCTCATG GCTGTCTGA CACCTGCCC AC chr 828797 C T PCF11 p.P795 0.007 0.005 3.85 1.47 GGACCTCCC SEQ 11 61 L 84 34 E- [1.03- ACACCAGCT ID 02 2.11] TCTCTTCGGT No: TTGATGGGT 154 CAC[C/T]AGG ACAAATGGG GGGAGGAGG CCCTTTGAG ATTTGAGGG G chr 896073 C T TRIM6 p.E205 0.008 0.003 3.95 2.81 ATTCTCACTT SEQ 11 39 4B K 82 16 +E- [1.96- GACTGTCTT ID 07 4.02] GTAGTTGTT No: GGAAAAGCT 155 CTT[C/T]TGC TTCTCTTTCC AGTGCCTGC AGATGCCGT TGCTCCTCC chr 947598 G A KDM4 p.C381 0.008 0.003 1.56 2.17 GCTCTGGGC SEQ 11 63 E Y 09 74 E- [1.5- CTGAGGCTT ID 04 3.14] CTCCCAAAC No: CTCACAGCC 156 CAGT[G/A]TC CCACACAGC CTGTGTCCTC AGGGCACTG TTACAACCC A chr 961175 A C CCDC p.D12 0.006 0.002 2.43 2.96 TGTTGAGAT SEQ 11 37 82 5E 62 24 E- [1.99- CATTATCCTC ID 06 4.42] TTGACTTAA No: ATGTTTTTCC 157 TG[A/C]TCTT GTAAGTCAA TATTCCTATG TTTGATTTTG TTCGTTT chr 107381 G T ALKB p.H47 0.006 0.004 2.37 1.63 AGAGAAAGA SEQ 11 630 H8 4N 62 08 E- [1.09- AAGACCATA ID 02 2.43] CTTACTGCT No: GTTGCAAAA 158 TGAT[G/T]AA TAACAGCAA TGGAGATGC AGGCATCAC AAGACCCAC TG chr 114451 T C NXPE4 p.131V 0.005 0.003 3.81 1.62 ACAGGATTC SEQ 11 010 39 33 E- [1.05- CATGTGTTTC ID 02 2.5] TCCAGACAT No: GCCCACTGG 159 GGA[T/C]TGT GGATGTCAT TCCAAACTT GCATTTCTCT TTCATTGCA chr 116744 A G SIK3 p.L518 0.005 0.003 3.98 1.6[1 TGTCTAGGT SEQ 11 648 L 39 38 E- .04- ACCTTGTAC ID 02 2.46] TCAAGTTGC No: CCGGTTGGT 160 TGCA[A/G]GT TTTGCATAG GCAACAGGT TGTGCATGA AGTTCACAT TA chr 117054 G A SIDT2 p.R235 0.005 0.003 2.25 1.73 ATGATGATG SEQ 11 496 H 39 13 E- [1.12- AAGAAGATA ID 02 2.66] TTTATCATCA No: TCATCCTGC 161 AGC[G/A]CA AAGACTTCC CCAGCAACA GCTTTTATGT GGTGGTGGT G chr 117057 C T SIDT2 p.R333 0.005 0.000 3.63 533. ATGCAGGCA SEQ 11 334 X 64 01 E- 81[7 GAAGAAGAA ID 31 2.07- GACCCTGCT No: 3953 GGTGGCCAT 162 .67] TGAC[C/T]GA GCCTGCCCA GAAAGCGGT ACCTCCAGG GGGCCTGGG TG chr 118516 G A PHLD p.A11 0.005 0.002 2.98 2.47 CCTGCCTGC SEQ 11 274 B1 08T 39 19 E- [1.59- GGGGCGGGA ID 04 3.82] GCGTGGGGA No: GGAGGGTGA 163 GCAC[G/A]CC TATGATACG CTGAGTCTG GAGAGCTCT GACAGCATG GA chr 118850 C G FOXR p.A15 0.005 0.000 7.54 287. GACAGCTCC SEQ 11 225 1 3G 15 02 E- 7[67. TCTATGGCT ID 29 44- CTCCCATCC No: 1227 CCTCACAAA 164 .4] AGGG[C/G]CC CCCTCCAGA GTCGGAGGC TTCGGCAAG CCAGCAGCC AG chr 120188 T A POU2 p.F422 0.018 0.000 5.03 2148 TCAAAATAA SEQ 11 060 F3 I 87 01 E- .21[2 CTCCAAAGC ID 111 98.7 AGCAGTGAA No: 1- CTCCGCCTC 165 1544 CAGT[T/A]TT 8.8] AACTCTTCA GGGTAAGGT GAAGGGGAC GGTGCAGAG AC chr 123476 C T GRAM p.A29 0.006 0.003 8.40 1.76 TCACCAACA SEQ 11 177 D1B 5A 37 64 E- [1.18- GCACACTAA ID 03 2.62] CATCCACAG No: GGAGCAGTG 166 AGGC[C/T]CC CGTCTCGGT ATGGGCAGT CAGCCTTTG ACTTCTACC CC chr 124266 A G OR8B3 p.P286 0.009 0.003 1.44 3.04 GTGCAACTT SEQ 11 390 P 31 09 E- [2.17- TGACATCCT ID 08 4.25] TGTTCCTCA No: AACTGTAGA 167 TGAG[A/G]G GATTGAGCA TGGGCACCA CATTAGTGT AGAAAACAG AAG chr 124620 G T VSIG2 p.N97 0.005 0.000 6.91 288. CGTCAGTCA SEQ 11 746 K 15 02 E- 96[6 GTTTCAGTG ID 29 7.73- TGGCCACCC No: 1232 CCACTGTGG 168 .76] GGGG[G/T]TT CTGAAGCAG GCTGACCCG CTTTGACTTA GAACCAGTT G chr 368928 T C SLC6A p.P97P 0.008 0.005 2.84 1.72 CCTCTAAGC SEQ 12 13 8 2 15 E- [1.23- GTCCTCCTA ID 03 2.41] CCTCCAGAA No: TTCTATACAT 169 CTA[T/C]GGG ACTCCCCAG AGGGGCCGT AAGTGCAGG AGATGGAAG T chr 704483 C T ATN1 p.Y13 0.011 0.007 1.73 1.46 ATATCGACC SEQ 12 8 6Y 03 57 E- [1.08- AGGACAACC ID 02 1.98] GAAGCACGT No: CCCCCAGTA 170 TCTA[C/T]AG CCCTGGAAG TGTGGAGAA TGACTCTGA CTCATCTTCT G chr 109594 C A TAS2R p.R55I 0.007 0.004 1.11 1.65 TACAATGCC SEQ 12 16 8 84 77 E- [1.15- ATTTACAAC ID 02 2.36] CATTACACT No: GATCAAACA 171 AATT[C/A]TG GCGATAACT AAATTGGTA AGGATGTAG TCAACTGTG GA chr 114617 G T PRB4 p.P50T 0.026 0.006 4.29 3.98 TGTGGGGGT SEQ 12 69 72 86 E- [3.23- GGTCCTTGT ID 29 4.9] GGCTTTCCT No: GGAGGAGGT 172 GGGG[G/T]AC GTTGGGGCT GGTTTCCTCC TTGTGGGCG TCGTCCTTCT chr 130615 A G GPRC p.I134 0.013 0.009 1.04 1.45 CAAGCTCGT SEQ 12 83 5A V 48 32 E- [1.11- CCGGGGGAG ID 02 1.91] GAAGCCCCT No: TTCCCTGTTG 173 GTG[A/G]TTC TGGGTCTGG CCGTGGGCT TCAGCCTAG TCCAGGATG T chr 152623 C T RERG p.V95 0.009 0.006 1.84 1.49 TGGGCTTTTT SEQ 12 59 V 80 58 E- [1.09- GATCTCATC ID 02 2.06] TAGGATGTT NO: CTTAAGTGG 174 CAG[C/T]ACT TCCTCAAAA CTTCCTCGGT CAGTAATGT CGTAGACCA chr 482402 G A VDR p.A35 0.005 0.003 1.83 1.71 GGAACTTGA SEQ 12 33 3A 64 30 E- [1.11- TGAGGGGCT ID 02 2.64] CAATCAGCT NO: CCAGGCTGT 175 GTCC[G/A]GC TGTGAGAGA CAATGGCCA GGTACTGCG GGCAGAGCT GA chr 494255 C T KMT2 p.V43 0.005 0.002 1.83 2.1[1 TTTGGCTCTT SEQ 12 75 D 05I 39 57 E- .36- GAGGGCTGG ID 03 3.25] ATGGTGGAG NO: GTGTGGGAT 176 GGA[C/T]AGG GCCAAGGAC TGGTCCTGT AGATAAGGC TCCTGGTGG G chr 504801 G T SMAR p.Q11 0.007 0.004 8.42 1.8[1 CCCGCAAGA SEQ 12 02 CD1 2H 807 359 E- .14- GACCTGCCC ID 03 2.71] CTCAGCAGA NO: TCCAGCAGG 177 TCCA[G/T]CA GCAGGCGGT CCAAAATCG AAACCACAA GTAAGATGA TC chr 507457 G A FAM1 p.A16 0.005 0.000 3.41 10.5 CTGGGCCTG SEQ 12 92 86A 08V 88 56 E- 6[6.1 CTGAGGGGT ID 14 9- GAGAGGGAT NO: 18.0 CCCCTGAGC 178 2] CTGC[G/A]CC TGCTGAGGG GTGAGAGGG ATCCCCAGT TCCTGCGCC TG chr 507468 A G FAM1 p.V12 0.025 0.000 7.89 399. CTGGGCCTG SEQ 12 36 86A 60A 74 07 E- 44[1 CTGAGGAGT ID 110 26.7 AAGAGGGAT NO: 2- CCCCAGTTC 179 1259 CTGA[A/G]CC .11] TGCTTAGGG GTGAGAGTG ATTCCGAGA GCCTGCGCC TG chr 507481 T G FAM1 p.K81 0.005 0.002 1.29 1.97 TCTTGCAAA SEQ 12 69 86A 6Q 21 65 E- [1.11- TATTGCTCCT ID 02 3.26] GCCTTTGTTT No: TTCCTTCTCC 180 T[T/G]GTGGT CTTTCTGTAC TGTTGAGAC TGTTGGAAT ATCTCTT chr 529608 C A KRT74 p.G50 0.005 0.002 9.47 2.09 GGCTGGGGT SEQ 12 23 7V 21 49 E- [1.18- GCTCTTGCC ID 03 3.47] CTGGGTGTC No: CTTGAGGTC 181 TCCC[C/A]CT CGCGCCTCT GTGGTCTTG GTCTGCCCG CTCTGGGTG CT chr 529620 G A KRT74 p.R420 0.008 0.005 2.50 1.51 AGTTTCAGG SEQ 12 50 W 33 55 E- [1.06- CTCATGAGC ID 02 2.13] TCCTGGTAC No: TCGCGCAGC 182 ATCC[G/A]CG CCAGCTCCT CCTTGGCCT GGTGCAGGG CGCCCTCCA GC chr 534481 G A TENC1 p.T13 0.005 0.003 1.35 1.79 TCATGGAGC SEQ 12 14 T 39 01 E- [1.16- GGCGCTGGG ID 02 2.77] ACTTAGACC No: TCACCTACG 183 TGAC[G/A]GA GCGCATCTT GGCCGCCGC CTTCCCCGC GCGGCCCGA TG chr 535169 C T SOAT2 p.V45 0.010 0.007 2.52 1.45 TGGGGTTCT SEQ 12 93 5V 54 32 E- [1.06- TCTATCCCGT ID 02 1.97] CATGCTGAT No: ACTCTTCCTT 184 GT[C/T]ATTG GAGGTGAGC TGGTCTCTGT GCCACTGGA AGGGAGCC chr 537144 G T AAAS p.T57 0.009 0.000 5.15 Inf GATGAAGGC SEQ 12 30 N 31 00 E- AGTTCTTGT ID 56 GCCATGGTC No: CAGCCTTCC 185 AGGG[G/T]TC TTTAGGGGA TCCTTTGTCA GTTGTAGGA CAGGAAGAT T chr 558464 C A OR6C2 p.L164 0.005 0.002 1.70 1.8[1 TGATGATCA SEQ 12 89 L 15 87 E- .16- TTGTTCCACC ID 02 2.8] ACTTAGCTT No: AGGCCTCCA 186 GCT[C/A]GAA TTCTGTGACT CCAATGCCA TTGATCATTT TAGCTGTG chr 563509 C G PMEL p.E370 0.005 0.002 5.00 2.3[1 CCTCTGAAA SEQ 12 77 D 88 57 E- .51- CTGGCACCT ID 04 3.49] TCTCAGGTG No: TCATACCTG 187 TGCT[C/G]TC TGCAGTTGG CATCTGCAC AGGTGCAGT GCTTATGAC TT chr 570092 G A BAZ2A p.N10 0.007 0.004 4.23 1.48 GTCCCCCCG SEQ 12 16 6N 35 97 E- [1.02- AGAACTGGG ID 02 2.14] AGAGAAGGG No: GTGGGTCCT 188 TGAG[G/A]TT GCTGCCAGG ATTGGCAGA TGGGTACTG TGAGTAGTT CC chr 575693 G A LRP1 p.G12 0.008 0.005 8.35 1.64 GAAGGCATT SEQ 12 39 15E 58 26 E- [1.16- GTGTGTTCCT ID 03 2.3] GCCCTCTGG No: GCATGGAGC 189 TGG[G/A]GCC CGACAACCA CACCTGCCA GATCCAGAG CTACTGTGC C chr 667251 G A HELB p.G95 0.005 0.003 2.31 1.66 TCGTTTGAA SEQ 12 38 9S 88 56 E- [1.1- ACATTTCTTG ID 02 2.51] CAAAGTAAG No: CTCTCCTCTA 190 GC[G/A]GCGC ACCTCCAGC AGATTTTCC GTCCCCACG GAAGAGCTC chr 856951 C T ALX1 p.N27 0.009 0.000 1.86 Inf TTTCAAACC SEQ 12 06 8N 56 00 E- ACCAGAACC ID 57 AGTTCAGCC No: ACGTGCCCC 191 TCAA[C/T]AA TTTTTTCACT GACTCTCTTC TTACTGGGG CAACCAATG chr 899169 G A POC1 p.I450I 0.006 0.004 3.83 1.55 GGTTGTTGT SEQ 12 68 B- 62 28 E- [1.05- CAGGAGAAT ID GALN 02 2.29] TATAATCTA No: T4 AACATTCAG 192 ACGA[G/A]AT CCCTCTACT GCGAATAGC CCCATGCCA GCCTGGTCT AT chr 956942 C T VEZT p.P712 0.001 0.000 1.23 41.5 TGAACCACA SEQ 12 43 S 96 05 E- [11.7- AGCAGATGG ID 05 147] AAGTGGTCT No: GACCACTGC 193 CCCT[C/T]CA ACTCCCAGG GACTCATTA CAGCCCTCC ATTAAGCAG AG chr 104144 C T STAB2 p.P217 0.006 0.003 1.77 1.68 CTATGTCGG SEQ 12 426 0S 13 66 E- [1.12- AGATGGGCT ID 02 2.52] GAACTGTGA No: GCCGGAGCA 194 GCTG[C/T]CC ATTGACCGC TGCTTACAG GACAATGGG CAGTGCCAT GC chr 108920 G A SART3 p.D69 0.005 0.003 3.10 1.62 TGATGCTGT SEQ 12 173 1D 64 48 E- [1.06- CCTTGCTGCT ID 02 2.47] GTCGTGCAG No: CACCTTGGG 195 CAT[G/A]TCC CTCTTCAGG GAGGCTGCC TTCTCCTTCT GCTTCGAAG chr 111317 T C CCDC p.L172 0.007 0.004 4.98 1.49 CTCCAGCAC SEQ 12 855 63 S 11 78 E- [1.03- TGCCTGTTG ID 02 2.17] ATGGAGAAG No: AAAACCATG 196 AACT[T/C]GG CCATTGAGC AATCTTCTC AGGCCTATG AGCAGAGGT GG chr 119594 C T SRRA1 p.5529 0.013 0.000 4.82 Inf CCATCCCCT SEQ 12 354 4 S 48 00 E- ACTATCGGC ID 80 CCAGCCCCT No: CCTCATCCG 197 GCAG[C/T]CT CAGCAGCAC CTCCTCCTG GTACAGCAG CAGCAGTAG CC chr 122361 C T WDR6 p.R188 0.012 0.008 5.94 1.53 TGAAAGGCA SEQ 12 711 6 W 25 07 E- [1.15- GCCCTCAGG ID 03 2.03] AGAGCTTGA No: GGAGAAAAC 198 CGAC[C/T]GG ATGCCCCAA GATGAACTG GGACAAGAA AGAAGGGAC TT chr 122404 C T WDR6 p.R860 0.012 0.008 1.00 1.49 ACAAGTCCT SEQ 12 946 6 C 01 07 E- [1.12- CCCAGTGAG ID 02 1.99] AAGCATGGC No: GGAGCTACA 199 GAAA[C/T]GC TACTTGGTG TTTATTAAC AGAGACAAG GTAACAGCG CT chr 122676 A G LRRC4 p.Y15 0.005 0.002 3.52 2.01 CCCGAAGGC SEQ 12 056 3 9C 39 69 E- [1.3- CCTTTCATCA ID 03 3.1] CTTACAACT No: ATTACGTGA 200 CCT[A/G]TGA TTTTGTGAA AGATGAAGA AGGCGAAAT GAATGAGTC C chr 123706 T G MPHI p.S160 0.006 0.000 8.30 14.3 GTGGATTCA SEQ 12 313 SPH9 R 51 46 E- 6[7.8- GGATAATGG ID 15 25.7 ATAACAGAT No: 8] TCATTTCTCT 201 CAC[T/G]GCT TAGAGAAAA AAAACCCAT TTGACTTTCC GAAGATACT chr 124364 C T DNAH p.H27 0.007 0.004 1.93 1.59 GGGATCCCA SEQ 12 285 10 39H 35 64 E- [1.1- TATTGTTTGG ID 02 2.3] AGACTTCCA No: GATGGCTCT 202 GCA[C/T]GAA GGAGAACCA CGCATTTAT GAAGACATC CAGGACTAC G chr 125396 G A UBC p.D49 0.028 0.012 4.07 2.27 CATCTTCCA SEQ 12 833 5D 92 95 E- [1.69- GCTGTTTCCC ID 08 3.06] AGCAAAGAT No: CAACCTCTG 203 CTG[G/A]TCA GGAGGGATG CCTTCCTTGT CTTGGATCTT TGCCTTGA chr 125397 T C UBC p.Q25 0.005 0.000 1.03 71.9 AGATCAACC SEQ 12 541 9Q 15 07 E- 8[31. TCTGCTGGT ID 24 86- CAGGAGGAA NO: 162. TGCCTTCCTT 204 59] GTC[T/C]TGG ATCTTTGCTT TGACGTTCT CGATAGTGT CACTGGGCT chr 125398 A G UBC p.T7T 0.012 0.000 1.46 94.0 CACTGGGCT SEQ 12 297 53 10 E- 3[44. CAACCTCGA ID 33 17- GGGTGATGG NO: 200. TCTTACCAG 205 19] TCAG[A/G]GT CTTCACGAA GATCTGCAT TGTCTAACA AAAAAGCCA AA chr 132625 G A DDX5 p.S487 0.022 0.000 2.59 2540 CCAGGACCA SEQ 12 260 1 S 30 01 E- .86[3 GGTGCAGGA ID 131 54- CGACCAGCG NO: 1823 GCTTAGAGC 206 7.12] TGAG[G/A]CT GCAGGGCAC GTAGTGGTG CTACAGGGA CGGCAGGGG GT chr 368717 G T CCDC p.V25 0.006 0.003 1.29 1.72 GGGACCCCA SEQ 13 82 169 V 37 72 E- [1.14- CACCGCGCC ID 02 2.59] GCCCGCCGA NO: CTCACTTCTT 207 GCG[G/T]ACT TCTTCCAGC AACTGCTGT TTCAGGCGG TTGGTGCTC A chr 423521 T C VWA8 p.M76 0.005 0.003 2.56 1.62 ACCAATAAT SEQ 13 71 7V 88 63 E- [1.07- AAGTGTTCT ID 02 2.45] CCAAGGAGA NO: AAGTCTTTC 208 AGCA[T/C]AT CTTCCATCA CTATCACAT GCTAGAGAA AAAGGAACT AG chr 492817 T A CYSLT p.L278 0.016 0.001 1.09 10.3 CACACTGAG SEQ 13 85 R2 I 93 66 E- 7[7.3 GACCGTCCA ID 30 2- CTTGACGAC NO: 14.5] ATGGAAAGT 209 GGGT[T/A]TA TGCAAAGAC AGACTGCAT AAAGCTTTG GTTATCACA CT chr 763816 T C LMO7 p.H18 0.008 0.004 7.04 1.9[1 TCCAAACAT SEQ 13 79 7H 82 66 E- .36- ACTCTGATG ID 04 2.67] ACATCTTGT No: CTTCTGAAA 210 CACA[T/C]AC CAAAATTGA TCCCACTTCT GGCCCAAGG CTCATAACC C chr 995404 G T DOCK p.P679 0.008 0.000 3.06 Inf CGTAGGTGA SEQ 13 20 9 T 33 00 E- ACATATATT ID 49 AAAAAAAAA No: CAAACCTTA 211 AGGG[G/T]CT GAGAGTCTT CCTCATCTG AATCTTTGA ATTCAATGC AA chr 103382 T C CCDC p.K69 0.000 0.000 1.26 14.3 TTTTCTTTCA SEQ 13 057 168 97R 25 02 E- 1[0.8 GAATAGAAG ID 01 9- TTGATATCG No: 228. TCATGATGA 212 77] GGT[T/C]TTG ATGCTGATT TATGTTTGCT TTGGAAACA ATCCAATCT chr 103382 G A CCDC p.T685 0.000 0.000 2.60 2.18 TCTATATTTC SEQ 13 483 168 5I 49 22 E- [0.49- CTGCTTTTGT ID 01 9.67] GGGACTTAC No: AGGAAGGTG 213 GT[G/A]TAAT AATTAAGGT TTCCTTTCTG CACTCTCTA GTACAATG chr 103382 A G CCDC p.V67 0.009 0.008 4.27 1.13 TTCTGATTCC SEQ 13 660 168 96A 56 43 E- [0.82- TGACTTAAA ID 01 1.57] TAAGAGTTG No: GCTTCCAGA 214 AAC[A/G]CAC ATTCCTCACT CTCACTTACT TCAAGACAT GAACACTC chr 103382 C T CCDC p.E678 0.000 0.000 2.43 4.63 ACACATTCC SEQ 13 700 168 3K 25 05 E- [0.48- TCACTCTCA ID 01 44.5 CTTACTTCA No: 2] AGACATGAA 215 CACT[C/T]GT CCAAGTCAG CTGGACTCT CAATATCTG TCTGAATAT CA chr 103383 C T CCDC p.E660 0.000 0.000 1.87 7[0.6 TATTGTAAA SEQ 13 228 168 7K 25 04 E- 3- TCAAGATCT ID 01 77.2 ATTTGATGG No: 1] AGAGATTTC 216 TCCT[C/T]AG AAAGTAACA AAATTCTGT TTTGTCGTTT TGGTCCTGT G chr 103383 T C CCDC p.R657 0.000 0.000 2.19 2.5[0 TTCTTTCTCT SEQ 13 339 168 0G 49 20 E- .55- CATGAGCAC ID 01 11.2 TGGTCATTG No: 7] CATAAGATT 217 CTC[T/C]TAC AATTCTGGG AAAGGCTTT CATTTGTATC TCCAATGTT chr 103383 T G CCDC p.E650 0.002 0.002 1.00 0.96 ATTTTCTAGC SEQ 13 524 168 8A 70 81 E+0 [0.52- TTATTAATA ID 0 1.77] CTCTGTAGC No: TTTGTGATTG 218 TC[T/G]CCTC ACTGTCACT TGAAACATC AACAATCAG TGTCTTCAT chr 103383 A C CCDC p.S646 0.000 0.000 1.89 6.91 GTCCCTTCTA SEQ 13 666 168 1A 25 04 E- [0.63- GAGACATAA ID 01 76.1 AGTTCATTG No: 9] TTTTATGTCT 219 AG[A/C]ATAG AACCTCCAA CTGTTATCTT TTGAAATAG TCCCTTTT chr 103383 G A CCDC p.H64 0.002 0.000 1.49 9.81 ATCAGATTC SEQ 13 792 168 19Y 94 30 E- [4.68- AGTTGTATTT ID 07 20.5 CAAGTGCTT No: 6] TTGACTCTA 220 AAT[G/A]ACT AGTAAGCTT ATTTTTTTCT TTGGGAGTA AACTGTTCT chr 103383 T G CCDC p.E641 0.000 0.000 6.73 Inf AAGTGCTTT SEQ 13 812 168 2A 25 00 E- [NaN- TGACTCTAA ID 02 Inf] ATGACTAGT No: AAGCTTATT 221 TTTT[T/G]CT TTGGGAGTA AACTGTTCT AAAAGGGAT TTGTGCTGC GT chr 103383 C T CCDC p.D63 0.001 0.002 2.75 0.61 AAGTCGTCA SEQ 13 951 168 66N 72 82 E- [0.28- GGCTTATAG ID 01 1.3] GCTTGTATG NO: TTATCTAGTT 222 TAT[C/T]AGA AGAAACTTT GTCTTGGAT CATATTTTTA ACCTGGGAC chr 103384 C T CCDC p.S632 0.000 0.000 4.28 1.98 ATGTTCTGC SEQ 13 070 168 6N 25 12 E- [0.24- ATTTGTACT ID 01 16.0 GTCTGCAAC No: 6] TATTTTGACT 223 TCG[C/T]TAC TTTTAACTTG AGGCGGTAT GGGCACAGT TCCTGGGAA chr 103384 G A CCDC p.T611 0.021 0.024 1.58 0.85 ATACTCTAA SEQ 13 712 168 2M 32 94 E- [0.68- TTTCTTTCTA ID 01 1.06] TTGCTTGGT NO: GTACCACGC 224 CCC[G/A]TGA TATTAAGCA TCTGTGGAA TTGGGTGAT TCTGGATTTT chr 103385 T C CCDC p.K59 0.003 0.004 5.30 0.81 GGGTGTGCA SEQ 13 064 168 95E 43 24 E- [0.47- CTACTGCTT ID 01 1.39] GTGTCCATT NO: CTTCCTCTCT 225 CCT[T/C]CTC CAGATTGGC AGTCCTGGC CTTGTGCAT CTCTGTTTTC chr 103385 G A CCDC p.P591 0.000 0.000 6.72 Inf TGATTGAAA SEQ 13 294 168 8L 25 00 E- [NaN- TTGAAAAGT ID 02 Inf] CCAGGGAGG NO: GAATAGGGA 226 CTTC[G/A]GA AGAAATTCC AGAACACCT TCCTCTTGTT CTGAAATGA G chr 103385 C A CCDC p.A59 0.000 0.000 4.26 1.99 AATTCCAGA SEQ 13 340 168 03S 25 12 E- [0.24- ACACCTTCC ID 01 16.1 TCTTGTTCTG No: 6] AAATGAGCA 227 ATG[C/A]CTG CTTCCTTCCC CCTTTTGCA GGGTCAATC TCTGTCATA chr 103385 C T CCDC p.G58 0.000 0.000 1.31 13.7 GGAAACTTA SEQ 13 520 168 43R 25 02 E- 5[0.8 GAAAGGATA ID 01 6- GTGTTCGTC NO: 219. CTGGTCTTGT 228 86] GCC[C/T]ATG TTCACACCG TCGGATCAC TTGCTTTTTC ATGACAATA chr 103385 G T CCDC p.S579 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.86 TTTGAGTGA SEQ 13 654 168 8Y 25 28 E+0 [0.11- TCCCTTTGTC ID 0 6.5] TGTGGTGCT NO: AACACTTTG 229 GGA[G/T]AA AACATTTTG CTGATTCTAT CATTACTTTG TCCATCTTC chr 103386 C T CCDC p.V56 0.000 0.000 6.74 Inf GCCTCTGGG SEQ 13 222 168 09I 25 00 E- [NaN- CGGGGCACA ID 02 Inf] TACTGTTCTG NO: CTTGCTTAA 230 CAA[C/T]GTT TTTATCAAC GCCTTCAAC TGAGTCTCT ATTTGTTATT chr 103387 C T CCDC p.V53 0.000 0.000 2.98 3.42 TGCTTTTCAT SEQ 13 002 168 49I 25 07 E- [0.38- TTTTAACATC ID 01 30.5 TTTTGGGAT NO: 6] ATCACCAAC 231 GA[C/T]GGAC TCTCTATGTA CAGTCTCCC CTATGTGTG ATATTCTC chr 103387 C T CCDC p.R533 0.002 0.004 1.64 0.63 GGACTCTCT SEQ 13 043 168 5Q 70 28 E- [0.34- ATGTACAGT ID 01 1.15] CTCCCCTAT NO: GTGTGATAT 232 TCTC[C/T]GC AAAATAGGT CTTTTAAGTC TTAGCATTTC ATTACCTAA chr 103387 G A CCDC p.P528 0.020 0.017 2.99 1.13 TTCACCTTCA SEQ 13 196 168 4L 10 80 E- [0.9- CATTCCTGC ID 01 1.42] ACCTTCTCTT NO: CCTGATGTTT 233 G[G/A]GGAA TATTAAGAT GCTTACTATT TGCACGTCA TCCTCTTC chr 103387 C A CCDC p.G52 0.000 0.000 4.64 Inf GATTAAAAT SEQ 13 313 168 45V 49 00 E- [NaN- ATCACCAGC ID 03 Inf] AATTGGCCT No: TATACATGT 234 GCCT[C/A]CC TCAGTATCT GGTGATACC TGGAGTTTT ACTAGGGGA AA chr 103387 C T CCDC p.V50 0.000 0.000 5.68 6.92 GACCGTGAC SEQ 13 767 168 94M 49 07 E- [1.27- TGTGGGAGA ID 02 37.8 GACACTTTT No: 1] GCAATTCTT 235 ATCA[C/T]GT TCTCCTGTCC TTCTGTTGTA TCAAACTTA AGATATGGT chr 103388 C G CCDC p.G50 0.035 0.034 7.24 1.03 TTTGTCTTCC SEQ 13 015 168 11A 78 78 E- [0.87- ATATCTATTC ID 01 1.22] TGAGTCCAC No: CTTTCTCTTC 236 T[C/G]CCTGT GCTGTGGGT TGCACTGGT CCTTTTGAGT TGCTTAA chr 103388 A T CCDC p.L490 0.000 0.000 1.30 13.8 CCATTGCAT SEQ 13 343 168 2M 25 02 E- 3[0.8 AGAAGTGCA ID 01 7- AGTGGGAGT No: 221. GCCTCTGCC 237 2] CTCA[A/T]AT GTATCCTTTT GGGGAGTAT TCTACCTTCC CTGCCTTCT chr 103388 C T CCDC p.G48 0.002 0.003 3.31 0.7[0 CCTCAAATG SEQ 13 378 168 90D 45 50 E- .37- TATCCTTTTG ID 01 1.32] GGGAGTATT No: CTACCTTCCC 238 TG[C/T]CTTC TATTTTTACT CTGTCCTTTG CCTCTTTATA TGGCAT chr 103388 G A CCDC p.P472 0.002 0.003 6.78 0.85 GTTTGCCTTG SEQ 13 877 168 4S 94 48 E- [0.47- AAGGCAATG ID 01 1.52] ATTCCTGGA No: TCTCAAGAT 239 GTG[G/A]CAT AAAGCTTCT TGTTATTCGT GGTTCACCT TCCTCTTCT chr 103388 T C CCDC p.M47 0.043 0.041 5.14 1.05 TGCCTTGAA SEQ 13 880 168 23V 14 03 E- [0.9- GGCAATGAT ID 01 1.23] TCCTGGATC NO: TCAAGATGT 240 GGCA[T/C]AA AGCTTCTTGT TATTCGTGG TTCACCTTCC TCTTCTTTT chr 103389 G A CCDC p.P465 0.001 0.000 6.03 7.86 TTCACCTGC SEQ 13 072 168 9S 96 25 E- [3.3- AGTTCCTTTG ID 05 18.7 TTTTTAGTAT No: 51] ATGGGAAAG 241 GG[G/A]TGAT TTCTCTGCCT TTACAGCTA TGTACTCGG GATGCATT chr 103389 T G CCDC p.K46 0.004 0.002 6.72 1.6[0 TGAAATATT SEQ 13 164 168 28T 41 76 E- .98- TGCTTTATCC ID 02 2.61] TTTTGGATCT NO: GGGCCATGT 242 AT[T/G]TTGT TCTGTTTGA ATCACCTGT GATATCATT CAAATATGA chr 103389 G A CCDC p.R458 0.000 0.000 2.68 2.13 GATCTTGTT SEQ 13 306 168 1X 49 23 E- [0.48- ACTCCTTGTT ID 01 9.44] CCTCTTTTTT NO: GCCTGCTGT 243 TC[G/A]TTTG TCTAATTTAC AGTGAGATA GAGAAGGTA TTGTCAGA chr 103389 A G CCDC p.C457 0.000 0.000 3.09 9.25 TGTTCCTCTT SEQ 13 321 168 6R 98 11 E- [2.61- TTTTGCCTGC ID 03 32.7 TGTTCGTTTG NO: 9] TCTAATTTAC 244 [A/G]GTGAG ATAGAGAAG GTATTGTCA GAAACACAT CCAGTTCA chr 103389 C A CCDC p.V44 0.000 0.000 1.89 6.93 TTGTATTCTT SEQ 13 594 168 85L 25 04 E- [0.63- GTACTGTTTT ID 01 76.4] TACATCATTT NO: GAGCTATCC 245 A[C/A]CCCAA AAGACTTTG TATGTGCTA TTTTCCCTGC ATCAAAT chr 103389 A G CCDC p.L446 0.002 0.001 8.43 1.8[0 TATTTTCCCT SEQ 13 656 168 4S 45 36 E- .93- GCATCAAAT ID 02 3.48] GATTTCTGCT No: GCCTTAGTT 246 GC[A/G]AAGT AGCAGATTT TATTATTCCT TGTAAGTCT TCCTCTCC chr 103389 C T CCDC p.E439 0.000 0.000 1.30 13.8 TGTTGCTCTT SEQ 13 867 168 4K 25 02 E- 7[0.8 CAGTTTCTCC ID 01 7- ATCCCTGTTC No: 221. CCTTGCTCCT 247 8] [C/T]ACCTTC TCCGTCCTCT TTCCCTTGCT CCTGGCCTT CTCCA chr 103389 T G CCDC p.K43 0.011 0.014 7.81 0.76 CCATCCCTG SEQ 13 885 168 88Q 27 80 E- [0.56- TTCCCTTGCT ID 02 1.02] CCTCACCTTC No: TCCGTCCTCT 248 T[T/G]CCCTT GCTCCTGGC CTTCTCCATC CCTTTTCCCT GGCTCT chr 103390 C T CCDC p.G43 0.004 0.003 2.99 1.27 ATGTAATCT SEQ 13 083 168 22S 90 86 E- [0.8- TTTGCTTTTT ID 01 2.01] GTACTTCAC No: TTGCGCTAT 249 CAC[C/T]CTC ACTGGGCAC CCCATTTGCT TTTTTCCCTG TCTCTGAT chr 103390 C T CCDC p.E432 0.012 0.010 2.45 1.19 TAATCTTTTG SEQ 13 086 168 1K 99 98 E- [0.89- CTTTTTGTAC ID 01 1.57] TTCACTTGC No: GCTATCACC 250 CT[C/T]ACTG GGCACCCCA TTTGCTTTTT TCCCTGTCTC TGATGAT chr 103390 G C CCDC p.Q42 0.000 0.000 7.59 1.07 TGCCTTGGTT SEQ 13 173 168 92E 74 69 E- [0.33- GTAAAATAC ID 01 3.46] CAGGTCTGA No: TTATTCCTTG 251 TT[G/C]GTCT TCCTCTCCTT CTATTCTTGT GTCCAATAT ATAATGG chr 103390 C A CCDC p.E426 0.000 0.000 2.94 3.47 AGAGAAGAA SEQ 13 257 168 4X 25 07 E- [0.39- TTGGAAGGC ID 01 31.0 AAATATAGG NO: 8] AACAGAACT 252 CTTT[C/A]CT GTTCATTCTT GTCTCCATC CATTTTCCCT TGCTCTATG chr 103390 T C CCDC p.E424 0.006 0.009 1.25 0.74 TTTCCCTTGC SEQ 13 322 168 2G 86 27 E- [0.5- TCTATGCCT ID 01 1.08] ACTCCATCT NO: GCTTTCTGTT 253 GC[T/C]CTTC AACTTCGTG ATCCATTTTC CCTTGCTCTT TGTCTTC chr 103390 C T CCDC p.E423 0.000 0.000 6.59 1.37 TCTATGCCT SEQ 13 332 168 9K 49 36 E- [0.32- ACTCCATCT ID 01 5.87] GCTTTCTGTT NO: GCTCTTCAA 254 CTT[C/T]GTG ATCCATTTTC CCTTGCTCTT TGTCTTCTCT ATCAACC chr 103390 T C CCDC p.I414 0.000 0.000 7.53 2.76 TGTTGCATG SEQ 13 626 168 1V 98 36 E- [0.94- TAATCTTTTG ID 02 8.07] CTTTTTGTAC NO: TTTGATTGTG 255 A[T/C]ATCAC CCTTACTGG CCACTCCAT CTGCTTTTTC CCCTGCC chr 103390 A T CCDC p.Y41 0.004 0.004 5.32 1.17 CCTGCCTCT SEQ 13 701 168 16N 90 21 E- [0.74- GATGATTTTT ID 01 1.84] GGTGTGATA NO: GTTCTGGAA 256 GAT[A/T]GTA TCTTGTTATT TCAGTGACA TACTCTGCTT TTTCTCTC chr 103390 A T CCDC p.L403 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.6[0 GCCCTAATT SEQ 13 938 168 7M 25 41 E+00 .08- TTTTCCATTT ID 4.42] TTTGCCTCTG NO: TTCTTTTTGC 257 A[A/T]TATAG ATTCTAGGG CCTTTTTTAC ACTGTTTGA GATATTA chr 103391 G A CCDC p.P391 0.000 0.000 6.02 1.14 TTTTTCCAAA SEQ 13 300 168 6L 25 22 E- [0.15- GCCTTTTCCA ID 01 8.74] CTCTGTCTTT No: GTCTTTCTGC 258 [G/A]GCATAT GTTTTGCTTT TTCAATACT GCTTAAACT ATCATC chr 103391 T A CCDC p.K38 0.000 0.000 1.45 3.42 TTCAATACT SEQ 13 357 168 97I 49 14 E- [0.73- GCTTAAACT ID 01 16.1 ATCATCAAT No: 3] TGGCTGCTC 259 ACAT[T/A]TT TCCATTGTAT CTGATAATT CCTGCTGTG TTGATGATG A chr 103392 C G CCDC p.G36 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.86 TATGTGTTGT SEQ 13 113 168 45A 25 29 E+00 [0.11- TTTGTACTTT ID 6.47] TAACATTAC No: TTGAGATCA 260 CC[C/G]CATC AATTGTTTCT TTATTCAATT TGAAGTGAG GTAAAGA chr 103392 C A CCDC p.M34 0.021 0.026 5.76 0.81 TTGATATTA SEQ 13 562 168 95I 08 02 E- [0.65- AATCAAAGA ID 02 1] CCTGTACCC No: CATCTGATG 261 ATTT[C/A]AT TCCTTTTGGA AATAAGAGA CTTGCATATT TTATAGTTT chr 103392 G C CCDC p.P343 0.000 0.000 1.90 6.88 ATAGTGCTT SEQ 13 735 168 8A 25 04 E- [0.62- AGCTGATCT ID 01 75.8 GCAGAAAAC No: 8] AAGTCTAGT 262 CCTG[G/C]TG TCCGGCTTG ATAAATTAC CTCCTTCTGA TAATGCTTC C chr 103392 G A CCDC p.R343 0.008 0.008 9.31 1.01 CTTAGCTGA SEQ 13 741 168 6W 82 75 E- [0.72- TCTGCAGAA ID 01 1.42] AACAAGTCT No: AGTCCTGGT 263 GTCC[G/A]GC TTGATAAAT TACCTCCTTC TGATAATGC TTCCTTTTCC chr 103393 A T CCDC p.D32 0.001 0.000 4.33 5.77 CTTTAATATT SEQ 13 330 168 39E 23 21 E- [2.03- CAAATGTAT ID 03 16.3 TCCTTCTGA NO: 8] ACATGGAGG 264 TTG[A/T]TCC ACCGGAATA CCTACTTCAT GTGATGCTT TCTCTACCA chr 103393 G A CCDC p.P323 0.000 0.000 5.03 1.54 ATTCAAATG SEQ 13 337 168 7L 25 16 E- [0.19- TATTCCTTCT ID 01 12.1 GAACATGGA No: 3] GGTTGATCC 265 ACC[G/A]GA ATACCTACT TCATGTGAT GCTTTCTCTA CCATTGGGC T chr 103393 C G CCDC p.V32 0.000 0.000 1.31 13.7 CCTACTTCAT SEQ 13 383 168 22L 25 02 E- 9[0.8 GTGATGCTT ID 01 6- TCTCTACCAT No: 220. TGGGCTTAG 266 58] AA[C/G]TTTT GAACTCATG ATTTCTTCTG CTGAGCCTT CTTTCTTG chr 103393 T C CCDC p.Q31 0.000 0.000 2.20 2.49 TTTCTGTCTA SEQ 13 580 168 56R 49 20 E- [0.55- TTTGATTTTA ID 01 11.2 ATGTAATAT NO: 6] CCAACTTTG 267 AT[T/C]GCTC TTTTCCCCAA AGATTTTCA TTGAAACTT TCAGAGAT chr 103393 C T CCDC p.V31 0.000 0.000 7.28 0.41 TCAGAATCC SEQ 13 731 168 06M 25 59 E- [0.06- AGAATACTT ID 01 3.03] TCGGGAACA NO: TGATCTGGA 268 TTCA[C/T]CT GTTCTTTCTG CTCTGCAGG CACTTTGTG CTGTACCTCT chr 103394 A G CCDC p.M29 0.000 0.000 2.44 4.6[0 TTCTCTAATA SEQ 13 336 168 04T 25 05 E- .48- TCTTGTTCCT ID 01 44.1 GTTTTCTAA NO: 9] GAATGCTGG 269 AC[A/G]TATC AGTACAACC TGACAATGA CCTTTGCATT TCTTTTAG chr 103394 T C CCDC p.K28 0.003 0.004 6.99 0.85 TTCTCCAGCT SEQ 13 421 168 76E 43 04 E- [0.49- TTGGCTGTG ID 01 1.46] GAAGAATGC NO: ATGTCCTGT 270 CTT[T/C]TGG CTTGTCTTTC TCCATTTTTA CTTCTGTAA GCTTTTTA chr 103394 G A CCDC p.Q28 0.001 0.001 2.15 1.63 ACTCGATGT SEQ 13 544 168 35X 72 05 E- [0.74- ACTGCATTTT ID 01 3.57] TACTCAGCT NO: GGAATGACT 271 TCT[G/A]CTG CTGGATGTT ACCTCTCAG TTCTTTTTTA TTGCTTGCA chr 103395 T G CCDC p.K25 0.002 0.003 5.88 0.8[0 TTTGTTTTTT SEQ 13 359 168 63T 94 69 E- .44- TCTATTTTTA ID 01 1.43] CATTTTTTTC NO: TGAATTCCC 272 T[T/G]TGTAA ATCTGACTTT TTGAGAAAA AAGTTTCTC CCAAAAG chr 103395 C T CCDC p.R254 0.001 0.001 5.07 1.28 AGTTTCTCCC SEQ 13 425 168 1H 72 34 E- [0.59- AAAAGCACA ID 01 2.77] TCCTCTGATT NO: TACCAAGAT 273 GA[C/T]GATC CTTTCTAAG ATATGTGTTT GCCATGAAG TTTTCTGC chr 103395 G C CCDC p.L242 0.001 0.001 1.00 0.96 TGCCACATT SEQ 13 789 168 0V 23 28 E+00 [0.39- GCTTTCAGTT ID 2.38] TGGTTTTTAA NO: ATTGGATTC 274 AA[G/C]TTTC TTCCTATGTT TTGTAGTAA ACTGCCCAC TGATTTTA chr 103396 T C CCDC p.K22 0.000 0.000 3.90 2.28 CTGTGAAAT SEQ 13 163 168 95R 25 11 E- [0.27- TGACGACTT ID 01 18.9 CTTTTCCTTC No: 4] ATAGTTAAA 275 CAT[T/C]TGG CATTGAATA TAATTTCTTT TTCTGATAA CTGTGCTGT chr 103396 C T CCDC p.R214 0.003 0.005 1.77 0.68 ACTCATACT SEQ 13 628 168 0Q 68 37 E- [0.41- TTTCTTGCCT ID 01 1.15] ATAAACTCT NO: AATGTATAG 276 CTC[C/T]GGC TTTCATATTC AGATGACAT GAGGCTGGA GAAATCTAA chr 103397 C T CCDC p.R200 0.000 0.000 1.43 3.46 TTTGCAAGG SEQ 13 030 168 6H 49 14 E- [0.73- GTCAGGATC ID 01 16.3] TTTCATTTGA NO: TGTGTACTG 277 AAA [C/T]GGA GGTGTTGAC TATAGCATG GAACTGATT CTGTTAACA T chr 103397 C T CCDC p.D19 0.000 0.000 4.85 1.39 CCTTTACCTG SEQ 13 280 168 23N 74 53 E- [0.42- AATTGTGCT ID 01 4.55] GTTCCCCCA NO: TACATTTCCT 278 AT[C/T]AGTT GGTACACCA CGTTTTATTG CACCAGTTA AAACTTCA chr 103397 T G CCDC p.Q18 0.021 0.026 5.77 0.81 AGGAAGAAG SEQ 13 387 168 87P 08 03 E- [0.65- TTTTGAATTT ID 02 1] ACTGTACAT NO: ATTGTGCCA 279 TTT[T/G]GGG TCTGGAGGC ATTTCTTTGT CTCCTCTCTT TGTATTGG chr 103398 G A CCDC p.A16 0.000 0.000 6.79 Inf TTTAGGTGT SEQ 13 023 168 75V 25 00 E- [NaN- AGATAAAGC ID 02 Inf] AGGCATGCA NO: GGAACCAAA 280 AATC[G/A]CT GTCTCTTTCT TTTCAGTAC CACCAGCCT GTTCCTTTTG chr 103398 T C CCDC p.T159 0.001 0.001 1.74 1.62 GTTTGTGTA SEQ 13 261 168 6A 96 21 E- [0.78- AAATGTGTT ID 01 3.37] TGTGGTTGT NO: ACCTGAATA 281 TTTG[T/C]AC TTCCTGGTTG GTTCAGTTC CTCATCTGA TTTGACAAG C chr 103398 C T CCDC p.D15 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.66 AGCTCATTA SEQ 13 339 168 70N 25 37 E+00 [0.09- TCCTTCTGAT ID 4.91] ATGCATTGA No: GTATTAAGC 282 CAT[C/T]GCT GTTCTCCAG AGCCTGTAA AGCTTTGGG AGGTGGAAT C chr 103398 C A CCDC p.G15 0.000 0.000 3.93 9.28 GTTTCGTTG SEQ 13 453 168 32C 49 05 E- [1.55- GCTTTTTGTA ID 02 55.5 GTTCTTCAG No: 3] CTTCTAAAG 283 GAC[C/A]CAT TTGGAGACT AGTCTCTAA AGTAGTTTG TTCAAAACC T chr 103399 G A CCDC p.T124 0.010 0.011 4.45 0.88 AGATAGTTC SEQ 13 313 168 5I 05 47 E- [0.64- CATTATGGG ID 01 1.2] AGAAACAAC No: AGACTCAAT 284 AATA[G/A]TT TCTGTGAAT GGGATTGGT TGATGCATT TCTTTCTCTG T chr 103399 A G CCDC p.I116 0.000 0.000 4.36 0.5[0 TTCTTCCCTT SEQ 13 553 168 5T 49 99 E- .12- TCAATTTGG ID 01 2.04] GATTCCTCTT No: GGACTAGCT 285 TG[A/G]TATG ACTGTGATT CTCTGCATTT AATCTGCTA TACATTCT chr 103399 A T CCDC p.N11 0.000 0.000 6.72 2.89 ATTCCTCTTG SEQ 13 573 168 58K 98 34 E- [0.98- GACTAGCTT ID 02 8.48] GATATGACT No: GTGATTCTCT 286 GC[A/T]TTTA ATCTGCTAT ACATTCTAG TATTAGGCA AAATAGACA chr 103399 G T CCDC p.P109 0.006 0.007 5.66 0.87 GTACCACAT SEQ 13 761 168 6T 37 35 E- [0.58- ATATTAATA ID 01 1.29] TAAGGCATC No: AGTGAGATT 287 GCTG[G/T]CT TCTTTACTTT CATAATTAC ATATTTGAC ACTGAGTAC A chr 103399 A G CCDC p.Y10 0.000 0.000 1.89 6.91 GTTTCTGAT SEQ 13 848 168 67H 25 04 E- [0.63- AATTTTTTTT ID 01 76.1 TAATTTCCTG NO: 9] CCTTTTAAA 288 AT[A/G]TGGT AAAGTAAGC AAGTGGTTA TTGAAAGAC CCCAGGGCA chr 103399 G A CCDC p.T103 0.000 0.000 2.94 3.47 TCTTTTTACA SEQ 13 943 168 5M 25 07 E- [0.39- TCTTCCTTTT ID 01 31.0 CTTCTGCAA No: 6] TATGACTAT 289 CC[G/A]TTGT CTTTTGGAG GTTTCCACC AAATGGGAC ACTATACTC chr 103400 T A CCDC p.D10 0.000 0.000 9.71 4.61 AACTGGCAA SEQ 13 048 168 00V 49 11 E- [0.93- GTTCTCTGG ID 02 22.8 CATTGTAAG No: 4] TGGATTCTTT 290 GGA[T/A]CTC CGGCACTCT CTCTGTCTGT AGGTCTATC TGTGCTTTG chr 103400 T G CCDC p.K95 0.001 0.000 8.40 6.95 AAGAGTTTG SEQ 13 198 168 0T 47 21 E- [2.61- TGGTTGGAC ID 04 18.5 TTCTTGCTCT NO: 3] TTATTTGGG 291 GCT[T/G]TAC TACTTCCTG AACTGATCT GTTCCATTTG GAATTTGAC chr 103400 C G CCDC p.D83 0.000 0.000 2.95 1.78 AGTTGAGAA SEQ 13 532 168 9H 98 55 E- [0.63- ATGGTAGTG ID 01 5.05] TAAGTGGCA NO: CTGTGAAAT 292 GCAT[C/G]AG ACGTTTCTTT ATCTTGATG CATATTTGTT ATGTTACTT chr 103400 C A CCDC p.D75 0.000 0.000 6.77 Inf AAACCGACA SEQ 13 781 168 6Y 25 00 E- [NaN- TTTGACAAC ID 02 Inf] TCCAGAACA NO: AGTTCCAAA 293 AAAT[C/A]TT TTTGTTTCTG TGTATTTTCC CTTGGAAAG CACCTTTGC chr 103400 T C CCDC p.Q75 0.000 0.000 2.95 3.45 TGACAACTC SEQ 13 792 168 2R 25 07 E- [0.39- CAGAACAAG ID 01 30.8 TTCCAAAAA No: 4] ATCTTTTTGT 294 TTC[T/C]GTG TATTTTCCCT TGGAAAGCA CCTTTGCGTT TTTGGTGT chr 103400 T A CCDC p.K74 0.000 0.000 2.95 3.45 TTGTTTCTGT SEQ 13 825 168 1I 25 07 E- [0.39- GTATTTTCCC ID 01 30.9 TTGGAAAGC No: 11] ACCTTTGCG 295 TT[T/A]TTGG TGTACTGGT TGGTAACTC CTCTCCATTT GAAAGTTG chr 103400 C A CCDC p.E734 0.000 0.000 1.82 2.18 GGAAAGCAC SEQ 13 847 168 X 74 34 E- [0.65- CTTTGCGTTT ID 01 7.38] TTGGTGTAC No: TGGTTGGTA 296 ACT[C/A]CTC TCCATTTGA AAGTTGAAG ATGGGAATT TTCTGAACTT chr 103401 C G CCDC p.E586 0.000 0.000 2.96 3.43 ATTCCTGTCT SEQ 13 291 168 Q 25 07 E- [0.38- CCTCAAGAG ID 01 30.7 GACCTGCAT No: 11] AATTGATTTT 297 CT[C/G]TGTA TCTGGTGAC TTATTTTGCT TCTGCAGAA AATGTCCA chr 103401 T C CCDC p.N52 0.000 0.001 5.28 0.64 ATATCTTTCC SEQ 13 480 168 3D 98 54 E- [0.23- TTTCATGTA ID 01 1.74] ATTCTTTCTT No: CTCAGTGTT 298 AT[T/C]CTTG CATCCTAAC TCATTCCTAT TTTTTAAAGT GTGACAT chr 103401 A G CCDC p.V37 0.001 0.001 8.33 1.01 CAGGCCCTT SEQ 13 929 168 3A 47 45 E- [0.44- TACTGAATA ID 01 2.33] TTTTGCCTCA No: ACAATTGAT 299 GGA[A/G]CTT CAACAAAAT GTTGGTTCCT ATCCAGATC TTGGGACTG chr 103402 A G CCDC p.Y16 0.000 0.000 5.95 1.16 TGCTCTGTAT SEQ 13 542 168 9H 25 21 E- [0.15- GGCTTAGAC ID 01 8.89] ACGTTTCCTC No: TACTTCTGA 300 AT[A/G]AAAC AATGGCAAA GATGAGCTG ATTCCATTTG AAGATGGC chr 103402 A G CCDC p.L167 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.82 TGTATGGCT SEQ 13 547 168 S 25 30 E+00 [0.11- TAGACACGT ID 6.13] TTCCTCTACT No: TCTGAATAA 301 AAC[A/G]ATG GCAAAGATG AGCTGATTC CATTTGAAG ATGGCACAT G chr 103402 A G CCDC p.W13 0.000 0.000 3.71 0.31 GAGGGACTT SEQ 13 638 168 7R 25 80 E- [0.04- ACTTGATCTT ID 01 2.22] CACTTTCACT No: AGTACCTGA 302 CC[A/G]TAGT ATTTCACGT GAGAATAAA ATTCTATCTT CAAAGTTA chr 103411 G A CCDC p.A39 0.000 0.000 2.46 13.9 TATCTCAAA SEQ 13 167 168 V 49 04 E- 1[1.9 AATAATTCC ID 02 6- TAGTAAAAT No: 98.8 TATAAAGAA 303 1] AATT[G/A]CC ACCCAATCA TTTTGAATA ATCCAGGAC TCTAGAAAG TC chr 103514 C T BIVM- p.H76 0.007 0.005 3.78 1.48 AAGTGGATT SEQ 13 444 ERCC 9H 84 31 E- [1.04- CAGAGTCTC ID 5 02 2.12] TTCCTTCTTC No: CAGCAAAAT 304 GCA[C/T]GGC ATGTCTTTTG ACGTGAAGT CATCTCCAT GTGAAAAAC chr 103701 A G SLC10 p.F304 0.005 0.003 3.18 1.61 ATCATGAAA SEQ 13 648 A2 L 64 50 E- [1.06- TGGGATTGG ID 02 2.46] CATGATTCC No: TTACATCCT 305 AAGA[A/G]T ATTGCGGCA AAGGCGAGC TGGAAAATG CTGTAGATG AGC chr 110864 C T COL4 p.E131 0.010 0.006 3.86 1.62 CAGCGAAAC SEQ 13 264 A1 E 29 37 E- [1.19- CAGGCAAGC ID 03 2.22] CAGGAGGCC No: CGAGCGGCC 306 CTCT[C/T]TC CCCCTGGGG AGACAGCAG AGCATCATT CATACGCAC TG chr 113201 C T TUBG p.R413 0.011 0.000 1.08 14.5 GGGAAAGAC SEQ 13 864 CP3 H 52 80 E- [9.66- GCGCGTGGG ID 30 21.7 AAAGACGTG No: 5] CATGGGAAA 307 GTCG[C/T]GC GTGGGAAAG TCGCGCGTG GGAAAGTCG CGCGTGGGA AA chr 114175 G A TMCO p.P436 0.012 0.008 3.24 1.39 CGCAGGACG SEQ 13 013 3 P 01 69 E- [1.04- TGCAGCTCG ID 02 1.85] GGCTCTTCA No: TGGCCGTCA 308 TGCC[G/A]AC TCTCATACA GGCGGGCGC CAGTGCATC TTCTAGGTA AA chr 212161 G A EDDM p.V13 0.007 0.004 1.38 1.62 CTTCAGCTA SEQ 14 36 3A 3I 35 56 E- [1.12- CATTGAATT ID 02 2.34] CCATTGTGG No: CGTAGATGG 309 ATAT[G/A]TT GATAACATA GAAGACCTG AGGATTATA GAACCTATC AG chr 233538 G A REM2 p.T39 0.009 0.004 1.55 2.02 TTTCTTTGCC SEQ 14 96 T 07 52 E- [1.44- CTCCCATTTT ID 04 2.82] ATTTTAGAA No: GCAGATGCC 310 AC[G/A]CTAC TAAAGAAGT CAGAGAAAC TGTTGGCAG AGTTGGACC chr 244643 C T DHRS p.T29 0.008 0.001 3.09 7.44 CTGCTGTCA SEQ 14 24 4L2 T 33 13 E- [5.09- ACCCTTTCTT ID 17 10.8 TGGAAGCCT No: 9] AATGGATGT 311 CAC[C/T]GAG GAGGTGTGG GACAAGGTG AGAGGGGAT TAAAGAAGC G chr 247723 C T NOP9 p.R413 0.007 0.004 3.19 1.61 GGGCCACCC SEQ 14 73 C 482 658 E- [1.01- AGGGGTAGT ID 02 2.45] CATTGCCCT No: GGTGGGGGC 312 CTGT[C/T]GC AGAGTTGGG GCCTACCAA GCCAAGGTC CTACAGCTC TT chr 449751 G A FSCB p.P363 0.010 0.000 7.71 Inf AGGAGACTT SEQ 14 03 L 29 00 E- TTCAGCTGG ID 62 TGGAGGCAG No: AATTTCAGC 313 AGGA[G/A]G CTCTTCTGA AGGGGACTC TTCAGCTGA TGGAGGCAG AAT chr 449751 G A FSCB p.P359 0.024 0.000 1.52 2806 AGCTGGTGG SEQ 14 15 L 51 01 E- .41[3 AGGCAGAAT ID 144 91.3 TTCAGCAGG No: 8- AGGCTCTTC 314 2012 TGAA[G/A]G 3.7] GGACTCTTC AGCTGATGG AGGCAGAAT TTCAGCCAG AAG chr 505810 A C VCPK p.Y18 0.010 0.006 2.01 1.48 ACTACAAAG SEQ 14 11 MT 8D 05 79 E- [1.08- ATAATAGAG ID 02 2.04] TACTTAATA No: CTTACCTCA 315 AAAT[A/C]TT TTTTCTCAAT TTCTGGATTT TTCCCCATTG TTCGTTGT chr 524954 C T NID2 p.R830 0.005 0.003 4.83 1.61 GATGCAAGT SEQ 14 81 Q 15 20 E- [1.04- ATGCCGGTC ID 02 2.51] ATCTGCAAA No: CTCATAACC 316 ACTC[C/T]GG CACTCACAC CTGTAGCTT CCAGGCAAG TTGATACAT AC chr 524963 T C NID2 p.D75 0.011 0.007 2.33 1.44 CATGTGGCT SEQ 14 99 6G 03 71 E- [1.06- CCCATCATA ID 02 1.94] GCAAGGATT No: CCCCGGAGT 317 GGGG[T/C]CT GAATCCTCT GCATGAGTA GAGGGGAAA TAAAAGCAC AA chr 525096 C T NID2 p.R493 0.011 0.008 4.93 1.35 AGTGGCATA SEQ 14 01 K 76 72 E- [1.01- GTCCGTGCA ID 02 1.81] GAAGGCATG No: CCGGGAGCA 318 TTGT[C/T]TG TGGTTGTGTT CACAGGTTT CCTTGTTGG CAGCATTAT A chr 609218 T G C14orf p.E462 0.006 0.004 4.35 1.52 TAAGAAAAG SEQ 14 36 39 D 86 52 E- [1.04- AAAGTCCAG ID 02 2.23] GGGATTCCT No: TTTCTGTTTG 319 AAC[T/G]TCA GGTACTGCA TTTCTATTTC TGTTACTGA GAAATAAGA chr 622448 C T SNAP p.T253 0.005 0.003 4.52 1.72 AATGATGGA SEQ 14 54 C1 M 21 03 E- [0.97- GAAGAAAAA ID 02 2.84] ATGGAAGGA No: AATTCACAA 320 GAAA[C/T]GG AGGTCAGAA AACTTTGCA ATTCATATT ATGTGTGGC TG chr 695216 C T DCAF p.R589 0.006 0.003 7.18 1.78 TGGGGCACT SEQ 14 37 5 H 86 88 E- [1.21- GGGCTTGTC ID 03 2.6] TTCTCGGGTT No: GTCTTCTGTC 321 GG[C/T]GCCG CATGGCATT CCGCTGCCA GGTAGAGGC TCGGCGTTC chr 704189 C T SMOC p.P77L 0.005 0.003 3.93 1.61 GAGTCCATG SEQ 14 85 1 39 36 E- [1.04- TGTGAGTAC ID 02 2.47] CAGCGAGCC No: AAGTGCCGA 322 GACC[C/T]GA CCCTGGGCG TGGTGCATC GAGGTAGAT GCAAAGGTG AG chr 751512 C T AREL1 p.V50 0.007 0.004 1.58 1.74 GAGACTTTG SEQ 14 52 M 157 135 E- [1.08- CAAGACCGG ID 02 2.67] GGATCCAGG No: TAATTTCCCC 323 GCA[C/T]GTA GTCATAAAT AGTCCGGTC CCCTCGGCG CTCGCGGTC C chr 860881 C A FLRT2 p.L107 0.006 0.003 2.85 1.61 CTACCTGTA SEQ 14 77 I 13 82 E- [1.07- TGGCAACCA ID 02 2.41] ACTGGACGA No: ATTCCCCAT 324 GAAC[C/A]TT CCCAAGAAT GTCAGAGTT CTCCATTTGC AGGAAAACA A chr 888929 C T SPATA p.R211 0.005 0.003 4.13 1.59 CTGAACTCT SEQ 14 32 7 R 39 41 E- [1.03- TTTCTAACA ID 02 2.44] AACAATTGC No: CATTCACTC 325 CTCG[C/T]AC TTTAAAAAC AGAAGCAAA ATCTTTCCTG TCACAGTAT C chr 891108 T C EML5 p.V13 0.009 0.006 3.12 1.45 AGTGAGTTT SEQ 14 01 61V 56 63 E- [1.05- TCCTTACCTC ID 02 2] TATAGGTCT No: CTTTTTCTTG 326 CC[T/C]ACAT TGTTTGTCTG GAGTTTCTCT GGCTGTGGT GGGGCCC chr 101004 A G BEGAI p.F568 0.005 0.000 2.13 607. CTGTCCTTGC SEQ 14 386 N L 88 01 E- 53[8 GGCTCAGCC ID 33 2.17- CCGAGCCAC No: 4491 CAGTCCGCG 327 .9] GAA[A/G]GG CCTGCTGGG GGCTGAGGC GGGCGGCAG GATGCATTT CC chr 103593 T A TNFAI p.V79 0.009 0.000 1.74 Inf GTGGGCTGG SEQ 14 342 P2 E 80 00 E- GGCCGGGGC ID 07 TGACGCGGC No: TTTCCCGGC 328 GCAG[T/A]GG AGGAGCTGA AGGCGGCGC TGGAGCGCG GGCAGCTGG AG chr 105415 C T AHNA p.K21 0.011 0.000 4.90 43.0 GGTCCCCCT SEQ 14 242 K2 82K 27 26 E- 7[27. GCATGGAGG ID 47 03- GGAGACTCA No: 68.6 TGTCGGCCT 329 2] CCAC[C/T]TT GGGTGGAGA CACATCCAC CGAGGCCTC GATGGACTT GC chr 105415 T C AHNA p.K21 0.019 0.000 7.30 21.3 CACCCCAAA SEQ 14 333 K2 52R 61 94 E- 6[15. CGACGGCAT ID 63 62- CTTGAACTT No: 29.1 GGGCATTTT 330 9] GAAC[T/C]TG CTGTCTTTGG TAGTCAGGT CCTTGTTGG CCAGGGTCA G chr 105415 A T AHNA p.D20 0.005 0.003 1.74 1.74 AGGGGAGAC SEQ 14 752 K2 12E 64 25 E- [1.14- TCACGTCGG ID 02 2.65] CCTCCACCTT No: GGGTGCAGG 331 CAC[A/T]TCC ACCGAGGCC TCGATGGAC CTCCCTGGG GCCGATACC C chr 105418 G C AHNA p.L120 0.008 0.001 3.11 4.88 GGTCAGCGG SEQ 14 170 K2 6L 82 82 E- [3.41- AAGGGGGCT ID 13 6.97] GAATGCTGA No: GGTCAGTGG 332 TCTT[G/C]AG GTCCCCCTG CATGGAGGG GAGACTCAC GTCGGCCTC CA chr 315155 G A LOC28 p.L124 0.011 0.000 2.03 Inf TGGGATCAG SEQ 15 19 3710 F 52 00 E- TGCGGCCTG ID 51 TCGTCTGCT No: GTTGTCATG 333 TGGA[G/A]CT CAGCAAACG GTGGGAGTC CTAGGGGAC AACATACAC AG chr 387768 T A FAM9 p.G42 0.007 0.000 7.32 61.2 ATCCATATG SEQ 15 33 8B 5G 35 12 E- 9[23. GAGGAGGTG ID 27 77- GTGGTGGTG No: 158. GTGGTGGTG 334 06] GTGG[T/A]GG AGGAGGTGG ATATAGAAG ATACTAAAA ACTATAAAA AT chr 418623 G A TYRO3 p.T458 0.008 0.005 1.15 1.6[1 CCCTGGCCC SEQ 15 46 T 33 24 E- .13- TCATCCTGCT ID 02 2.26] TCGAAAGAG No: ACGGAAAGA 335 GAC[G/A]CG GTTTGGGTA AGGGGATGG GGATGTGGA GGGAGAGGC AG chr 436533 C T ZSCAN p.R842 0.005 0.003 4.15 1.58 AGGGGCTTA SEQ 15 05 29 Q 39 41 E- [1.03- CTTGGGAGC ID 02 2.44] TGACTGTGT No: CAGAAGCTT 336 TTCC[C/T]GT GCATGGATT TCTCCGTGCT TATTAAGGG CAGAGCTTT T chr 484704 G T MYEF p.A2E 0.026 0.000 2.09 Inf GCCACCAGT SEQ 15 30 2 23 00 E- GGCCCCGGG ID 39 CACCTCGGC No: CTTGTTGGC 337 GTCC[G/T]CC ATCCCGCCG CCGCTGCCT CCGCCTCGG CCGCCTGAG CT chr 525107 A G MYO5 p.L129 0.005 0.003 3.12 1.67 TTACACTTG SEQ 15 96 C 2L 15 08 E- [1.08- ACTTCACTTT ID 02 2.6] CAGTTTCAA No: ATTGTTTCTT 338 CA[A/G]GTGG TCACTGGCC TCCTGCATTT CTTGAATCTT ATCAATC chr 651578 G A PLEK p.S420 0.010 0.007 1.60 1.47 AACGGCTAT SEQ 15 74 HO2 S 78 36 E- [1.08- ATCGGGCCC ID 02 1.99] AGCTGGAGG No: TGAAGGTGG 339 CCTC[G/A]GA ACAGACGGA GAAACTGTT GAACAAGGT GCTGGGCAG TG chr 720235 G A THSD4 p.V52 0.005 0.003 2.01 1.83 GATACACCA SEQ 15 02 6M 53 02 E- [1.05- GCAGCCAAA ID 02 2.99] CCCAGGCGT No: GCACTACGA 340 GTAC[G/A]TG ATCATGGGG ACCAACGCC ATCAGCCCC CAGGTGCCA CC chr 721922 C G MYO9 p.R109 0.005 0.002 2.23 1.89 GTAATCTCT SEQ 15 05 A 8P 21 75 E- [1.07- CCATTTCTGC ID 02 3.13] TGGATAACG No: ATGGCTGCA 341 GCC[C/G]GTA ACTCCAAGT ACCGCTGCC TCTCTAAGT GAGCACGCC A chr 725021 T C PKM p.N15 0.005 0.003 3.24 1.61 CACCACCTT SEQ 15 15 5S 64 52 E- [1.05- GCAGATGTT ID 02 2.45] CTTGTAGTC No: CAGCCACAG 342 GATG[T/C]TC TCGTCACAC TTTTCCATGT AGGCGTTAT CCAGCGTGA T chr 725136 T A PKM p.T36S 0.017 0.011 2.57 1.5[1 CTTGGCCTC SEQ 15 12 16 53 E- .16- ACTAGCAAA ID 03 1.93] GACCGCTCA No: GAGCTGAAT 343 ACGG[T/A]GT GCCCTGGAG AGCTGCACA AGGATTAAG GAAAAAGCT GA chr 759815 C A CSPG4 p.G63 0.005 0.000 7.77 Inf TCCATCGCT SEQ 15 11 2V 15 00 E- GACCCGGAA ID 31 CGTCAAGTC No: CTGTGCAGG 344 ACCA[C/A]CG CGGTGGACA TAGACTAGG CTGCCGGCC TCCAACTCC CG chr 759820 A G CSPG4 p.H45 0.006 0.004 4.39 1.52 TGCGCAGCT SEQ 15 53 1H 86 53 E- [1.04- CAGCCTCCA ID 02 2.23] TCAGGTCCA No: GCGTGGGCT 345 GCAC[A/G]TG CCTCCACTC AAGCCAGGC TGTGCCCCC CTCGGCCAC CA chr 784613 C T IDH3A p.R360 0.006 0.003 7.88 1.74 AGGCAATGC SEQ 15 24 C 86 96 E- [1.18- AAAATGCTC ID 03 2.55] AGACTTCAC No: AGAGGAAAT 346 CTGT[C/T]GC CGAGTAAAA GATTTAGAT TAACACTTC TACAACTGG CA chr 790589 A T ADAM p.A11 0.007 0.000 2.49 10.5 GAGGCTCTG SEQ 15 44 TS7 03A 89 80 E- 6[6.0 TGGCAGGCA ID 11 4- CGGGGCTAC No: 18.4 CCGTGGAGG 347 9] GCGC[A/T]GC AGGATGGCT GTGTGGTGG GGGTGTCCG GTCCCCTGT CC chr 796037 G A TMED TMED 0.006 0.004 3.23 1.54 GGAGGTGGA SEQ 15 60 3 3(NM_ 86 47 E- [1.05- GCAGGGCGT ID 007364: 02 2.26] GAAGTTCTC No: exon1: CCTGGATTA 348 c.1 CCAG[G/A]TG 68 + 1 AGGCCGGGC G > A) GCCCGGCAG CGCTCCCTTC TCCCTCCACT chr 891697 G A AEN p.G10 0.006 0.004 2.72 1.58 TGGATCTGG SEQ 15 38 0R 62 20 E- [1.07- CAGTGCCCC ID 02 2.33] ATGCAGCAG No: AAGGCCTGC 349 TCCC[G/A]GG AAAGCCTCA GGGCCCTTG CCCAGCAAG TGTGTGGCT AT chr 102346 C T OR4F6 p.R54 0.005 0.003 2.56 1.62 GGGAAATCT SEQ 15 082 C 88 63 E- [1.07- CCTCATTGT ID 02 2.45] GCTAACTGT No: GACCTCTGA 350 CCCT[C/T]GT TTACAGTCC CCCATGTAC TTCCTGCTG GCCAACCTT TC chr 315001 C T ITFG3 p.R547 0.005 0.003 3.86 1.62 AGACAGTGA SEQ 16 W 39 35 E- [1.05- CCAAGCCAT ID 02 2.49] CAGGGACCG No: GTTCTCCCG 351 GCTG[C/T]GG TACCAGAGT GAGGCGTAG AGGCACGCC AGCCAGAGC CT chr 863362 C G PRR25 p.P237 0.020 0.000 1.86 Inf GACATCCCC SEQ 16 R 34 00 E- TCTGCTATTG ID 108 CTGCGGGAC No: CGGCAAGGA 352 CGC[C/G]GGA CCGACACGG CCTCCCCAT CCCTGGGTC CACCCCGAC T chr 225857 G A MLST8 p.G27 0.005 0.002 7.86 1.86 GAGCGGCAA SEQ 16 5 5S 39 90 E- [1.21- CCCCGGGGA ID 03 2.88] GTCCTCCCG No: CGGCTGGAT 353 GTGG[G/A]GC TGCGCCTTCT CGGGGGACT CCCAGTACA TCGTCACTG G chr 228764 A C DNAS p.D19 0.005 0.003 3.19 1.6 TACGACGTG SEQ 16 9 EIL2 7A 64 51 E- [1.06- TACCTGGAC ID 02 2.46] GTGATCGAC NO: AAGTGGGGC 354 ACCG[A/C]CG TAAGCCCAC CCCTCGGTC CCGGGGTCC CTGCAGGCG CG chr 236959 C T ABCA3 p.R288 0.014 0.009 1.71 1.56 GAGTGTTGG SEQ 16 2 K 46 32 E- [1.2- GGAGCCAAA ID 03 2.03] GCGGGCAGT NO: CACCTTCAG 355 CCTC[C/T]TT TCCTTCTCCT GCACGACAG CACGGGCAA TGGTGAGCG C chr 284851 G T PRSS4 p.A10 0.016 0.000 6.97 Inf GAGAGGAGG SEQ 16 5 1 A 67 00 E- CCATGGGCG ID 73 CGCGCGGGG NO: CGCTGCTGC 356 TGGC[G/T]CT GCTGCTGGC TCGGGCTGG ACTCGGGAA GCCGGGTGA GC chr 363905 C T SLX4 p.P152 0.005 0.002 4.17 2.04 CTTCGGGCT SEQ 16 8 7P 15 53 E- [1.31- TCTGAGCTC ID 03 3.18] CACCAGCGC NO: TTGGCATCT 357 GGGC[C/T]GG AGGAGGGGT CTCTGGAGG CCTCTGCTCT TCCCCGTCC C chr 363937 T A SLX4 p.I142 0.011 0.001 8.31 11.0 GAGAGGGGC SEQ 16 8 1F 76 07 E- 9[7.9- TCCATGTGC ID 30 15.5 CAGCAGCAG NO: 6[ TCGTCAATT 358 GGAA[T/A]TG GGGGGTCAC TGTCCAGTG GGGGGCTTC TGTTGGCCT GA chr 364081 C G SLX4 p.E942 0.005 0.002 1.53 2.14 TGGCCAAGC SEQ 16 5 Q 39 53 E- [1.39- GCCTCCTCT ID 03 3.31] GGCGCCTCC NO: TGCTCAGGG 359 GCCT[C/G]TG CTCCCCGTG CCCCTGAGT GCTGGCCCT GGGGTGGCG GG chr 370719 G A DNAS p.V18 0.008 0.004 4.80 1.69 CGCATGTCC SEQ 16 1 E1 5I 33 95 E- [1.19- CAGGGCCAC ID 03 2.39] AGGCAGCGT No: TTCCTGGTA 360 GGAC[G/A]TC ATGTTGATG GGCGACTTC AATGCGGGC TGCAGCTAT GT chr 373608 C T TRAP1 p.R128 0.005 0.002 9.00 1.91 CATTTCTGG SEQ 16 5 H 15 70 E- [1.22- CAGTGCTTG ID 03 2.97] GCCGTCAGA No: CACCAGTTT 361 GTGA[C/T]GC AGTTTTTCCA AGGCATCGC TGGCATTGG AGATCAGCT C chr 491077 A G UBN1 p.R262 0.024 0.000 1.26 2748 GCTAAAGAA SEQ 16 7 G 02 01 E- .75[3 ATTTCAGAA ID 141 83.2 AGAGAAAGA No: 6- GGCTCAGAA 362 1971 AAAA[A/G]G 4.18] GGAGGAGGA GCATAAGCC TGTTGCGGT CCCATCAGC GGA chr 209965 G A DNAH p.D25 0.006 0.004 4.15 1.51 CGATGTCAG SEQ 16 25 3 13D 62 39 E- [1.03- CCTTCTCGTC ID 02 2.23] AGCAGGGAA No: GATGTTAGG 363 CAC[G/A]TCA CCTGTGTTC AGAAGCATG TTGATGTCCT CCACGAATG chr 209965 G A DNAH p.A24 0.007 0.004 1.02 1.68 TGATGTCCT SEQ 16 88 3 92A 11 23 E- [1.16- CCACGAATG ID 02 2.45] ATTCATCCTT No: GATCTGGTT 364 GTC[G/A]GCG AAGAGGAAC ACGGTGCTC TTGGTGGCC ACACCGACC T chr 217476 A C OTOA p.T706 0.007 0.000 5.19 75.1 CCTTCTGCA SEQ 16 33 P 35 10 E- 3[37. AGCAGCTTC ID 35 62- CAAGATGGC No: 150. CAGGACCCT 365 01] GCCC[A/C]CT AAAGAATTC CTCTGGGCT GTCTTTCAGT CTGTTCGGA A chr 217476 G T OTOA p.E708 0.007 0.000 1.12 413. GCAAGCAGC SEQ 16 39 X 35 02 E- 18[9 TTCCAAGAT ID 41 8.71- GGCCAGGAC NO: 1729 CCTGCCCAC 366 .48] TAAA[G/T]AA TTCCTCTGG GCTGTCTTTC AGTCTGTTC GGAACAGCA G chr 217476 G A OTOA p.Q71 0.007 0.000 5.17 136. GGACCCTGC SEQ 16 62 5Q 35 05 E- 27[5 CCACTAAAG ID 38 6.69- AATTCCTCT NO: 327. GGGCTGTCT 367 58] TTCA[G/A]TC TGTTCGGAA CAGCAGTGA TAAGATCCC CAGCTATGA CC chr 289438 C G CD19 p.P102 0.019 0.000 1.99 Inf CAACAGATG SEQ 16 83 R 36 00 E- GGGGGCTTC ID 114 TACCTGTGC No: CAGCCGGGG 368 CCCC[C/G]CT CTGAGAAGG CCTGGCAGC CTGGCTGGA CAGTCAATG TG chr 289962 G C LAT p.L15F 0.017 0.000 7.89 Inf AGGCCACGG SEQ 16 27 89 00 E- CTGCCAGCT ID 80 GGCAGGTGG NO: CTGTCCCCG 369 TCTT[G/C]GG GGGGGCCAG CAGACCCTT GGTGAGTGC CTGGGGTGG CT chr 307932 C G ZNF62 p.Q79 0.014 0.000 4.59 1291 CTGCCTCTG SEQ 16 73 9 2H 22 01 E- .24[1 GAGGGGGGT ID 78 78.8 CCTCGGGAT NO: 1- TGGGGGGTT 370 9324 TTTC[C/G]TG .5] GGTGTGGGT TTCTTGGTGC CGGGTGAGG GCCACGCGG T chr 307942 G T ZNF62 p.T481 0.022 0.000 7.33 Inf AGCTCTTGC SEQ 16 06 9 T 55 00 E- CGCACTCGG ID 134 GGCACTTGT NO: AGGGCTTCT 371 CGCC[G/T]GT GTGCGTGCG GCGGTGCTG GATAAGGTG GGAGCTGCG GA chr 620552 G A CDH8 p.P24S 0.015 0.000 1.88 451. ACTTGAGAC SEQ 16 38 93 0 4 E- 14[1 TGATTCATC ID 89 64.2 GGAGCCATG No: 8- TAAATGCAA 372 1238 GGGG[G/A]A .87] AGAGTAATC CATAATATT ATTAATGGA GTCCAGAGA TCC chr 672368 C T ELMO p.T600 0.006 0.004 4.80 1.48 CTGATCCGC SEQ 16 72 3 M 86 65 E- [1.01- CAGCAGCGC ID 02 2.16] TTGCTCCGC No: CTCTGTGAG 373 GGGA[C/T]GC TCTTCCGCA AGATCAGCA GCCGGCGGC GCCAGGGTC TC chr 689615 C T TANG p.R745 0.008 0.006 3.26 1.45 ATACCCTGA SEQ 16 76 O6 C 82 09 E- [1.04- TCCGGTCAT ID 02 2.03] CCAAGAACT No: CGCTGTTGA 374 TCTC[C/T]GC ATCACCATC TCTACCCAT GGAGCCTTT GCCACTGAG GC chr 705088 A G FUK p.T772 0.009 0.006 1.39 1.54 TGAGCTGTG SEQ 16 51 A 31 05 E- [1.11- GCTGGCGGT ID 02 2.15] GGGGCCTCG No: GCAGGATGA 375 GATG[A/G]CT GTGAAGATA GTGTGCCGG TGCCTGGCT GACCTGCGG GA chr 708947 C T HYDIN p.P393 0.025 0.000 4.43 656. GGCAGATGG SEQ 16 71 7P 98 04 E- 67[9 GCAAGGTGC ID 89 1.63- TCCGCCCTTT No: 4706 TGCTACCAG 376 .3] GAC[C/T]GGA CCTTGCTCTC CAGGTGGCA GGTTGGGAA TCCTGAGAG chr 708970 C T HYDIN p.R383 0.005 0.000 1.11 Inf TGAGGTATC SEQ 16 62 2H 39 00 E- TTCTGAGAC ID 32 CCAGCTGAA No: TTCCAGCTG 377 GACA[C/T]GT CCTGAATTA ATCACATCG AACCTGCAA ATCGATCAG GG chr 709350 C T HYDIN p.R295 0.005 0.002 9.20 2.95 AGGCCACAG SEQ 16 93 4R 88 00 E- [1.93- GCAGGAGCG ID 06 4.51] TGACATTGC No: GGAGAAGAA 378 CTAC[C/T]CT GGATTCCTG TCTGCAGAG ACAAAAGGA AAGTTGCAA TT chr 709550 G A HYDIN p.I240 0.017 0.000 2.60 Inf TCTCAGACA SEQ 16 79 0I 40 00 E- TTGTTTGTTC ID 94 CCTAACAGA No: TATTTTCCTT 379 TC[G/A]ATTG TCTCCATCTT GACATCCAC TTTGGTGAG CGGAGGAA chr 709960 G A HYDIN p.S193 0.006 0.001 1.77 5.05 CGATGTCCT SEQ 16 23 6L 37 27 E- [3.17- CTTTGTGCTA ID 09 8.05] TTGGAGGTT No: CCCTGATCT 380 GAT[G/A]AG GTTATATCTT CCTCTTCTGC CAGGTAGCA AAGGATGAA chr 711012 G A HYDIN p.A71 0.005 0.000 2.94 93.9 AGAGCAAGC SEQ 16 11 3V 88 06 E- 2[40. TGGGGAGCA ID 29 44- ATACCTTGC No: 218. TGTAATTAA 381 11] GAGC[G/A]CC AGCACCTCT TCTCCGATG CCCTCCACG TCCACCACG AG chr 851007 C T KIAA0 p.D40 0.005 0.001 1.06 3.2[2 CACCCCCTG SEQ 16 97 513 D 15 61 E- .03- TGCTGCAGG ID 05 5.03] ACGGCGATG No: GCTCCCTGG 382 GGGA[C/T]GG TGCATCAGA GAGTGAGAC CACTGAGTC TGCGGACAG TG chr 887197 T C MVD p.K36 0.011 0.007 1.19 1.51 CTGGGTGAG SEQ 16 26 8K 03 34 E- [1.11- CCCCAGGCC ID 02 2.04] TCACCTGAG No: TGACAATGA 383 TGTA[T/C]TT GACCCCACC GGGGGTCGG CTCCATGGC CAGCGCAGC CT chr 168770 C T SMYD p.V64 0.006 0.003 2.00 1.95 TGTAGGTCC SEQ 17 7 4 51 86 53 E- [1.33- TGTAACCGA ID 03 2.87 2.87] GAGACCAGG NO: TGGTCCCTG 384 CTGA[C/T]GG CGGATTCTG CACAAGATC TGCTGCCAC AGCGCAGCA CG chr 227571 G C SGSA1 p.R530 0.005 0.000 8.71 571. TGTCGGCGC SEQ 17 9 2 R 88 01 E- 47[7 TGGTGCACC ID 33 7.29- ATAGCGTTA NO: 4225 TCCCACCTG 385 .3] ACCG[G/C]CC CCCGGGGGC CTCCGCGGG CCTCACCAA GGACGTGTG GA chr 319577 A T OR3A1 p.F34I 0.011 0.006 5.13 1.74 CTGAGGTTG SEQ 17 7 76 79 E- [1.3- CCCCTGACC ID 04 2.33] GTGACCAGG NO: TAGGCAAAG 386 AGGA[A/T]G AGCACAAAG ACAACTGGC TGCAGCCCT GGCGCCTCC AGC chr 722237 G A NEUR p.L122 0.006 0.003 1.18 1.72 CCTGGTCCT SEQ 17 4 L4 5F 13 57 E- [1.15- GTTCCTTCTC ID 02 2.58] TCTGGCTCCT NO: ACTCACCTT 387 GA[G/A]ACC GTTGTGGAA GACCCCACG GCCCCGCAG CAGCCAGGC T chr 819320 G A RANG p.Q17 0.005 0.003 9.03 1.78 ATCTGTCAC SEQ 17 3 RF 0Q 88 31 E- [1.18- CTGCACCCT ID 03 2.69] GGAGCCTGG NO: GTGACTTTG 388 AACA[G/A]CT GGTGACCAG TCTGACCCTT CACGATCCT AACATCTTT G chr 117846 C T DNAH p.A35 0.008 0.005 4.28 1.45 TCACCGTGA SEQ 17 88 9 88A 09 58 E- [1.02- CCAGGGATG ID 02 2.07] GCCTGGAGG NO: ACCAGTTGC 389 TGGC[C/T]GC TGTGGTCAG CATGGAGAG GCCAGACTT GGAGCAGCT GA chr 142048 C T HS3ST p.C11 0.005 0.002 3.72 2[1.2 GGCAGCGCA SEQ 17 68 3B1 C 39 71 E- 9- TGGGGCAGC ID 03 3.1] GCCTGAGTG NO: GCGGCAGAT 390 CTTG[C/T]CT CGATGTCCC CGGCCGGCT CCTACCGCA GCCGCCGCC GC chr 171844 C T COPS3 p.A2A 0.008 0.005 4.22 1.46 AGAGCTGTC SEQ 17 95 09 56 E- [1.03- GGACACTGT ID 02 2.07] TCACGAACT NO: GCTCCAGGG 391 CAGA[C/T]GC CATGTTTTCC CCCGGGCGG CCCGAGCGG CGAAGGCAG C chr 188746 C T FANTS p.D81 0.011 0.000 1.70 1177 TGGCTCCAG SEQ 17 89 3G 9N 03 01 E- .01[1 GCTGGGACA ID 63 62.2 TGCTGCTAG No: 1- GGGTCTTTG 392 8540 CGGT[C/T]CC .78] GGGGGGCTT GAGCCCTCC GTTTAGAAT CCGATGAGG CC chr 212039 G A MAP2 p.M90 0.009 0.004 9.33 2.28 TGGTAGAGA SEQ 17 61 K3 I 56 22 E- [1.64- AGGTGCGGC ID 06 3.16] ACGCCCAGA NO: GCGGCACCA 393 TCAT[G/A]GC CGTGAAGGT GAGCAGGGC CTGGAGGCA GCTGGGAGG GC chr 212154 C G MAP2 p.T273 0.005 0.002 1.78 2.05 AGATGGCCA SEQ 17 98 K3 T 88 88 E- [1.35- TCCTGCGGT ID 03 3.11] TCCCTTACG NO: AGTCCTGGG 394 GGAC[C/G]CC GTTCCAGCA GCTGAAGCA GGTGGTGGA GGAGCCGTC CC chr 213186 G A KCNJ1 p.R6Q 0.012 0.002 2.45 4.42 AGCCAGGGT SEQ 17 71 8 04 75 E- [3.02- CCCCCAACC ID 12 6.32] CCCGGGATG NO: ACCGCGGCC 395 AGCC[G/A]G GCCAACCCC TACAGCATC GTGTCATCG GAGGAGGAC GGG chr 213188 G A KCNJI p.A58 0.017 0.000 4.39 49.8 CCGCTTCGT SEQ 17 26 2 T 16 35 E- [33.5 CAAGAAGAA ID 73 1- TGGCCAGTG NO: 74.0 CAACATTGA 396 1] GTTC[G/A]CC AACATGGAC GAGAAGTCA CAGCGCTAC CTGGCTGAC AT chr 213197 G A KCNJI p.E380 0.010 0.000 9.65 31.5 GTTCCTGCT SEQ 17 92 2 K 05 32 E- 6[20. GCCCAGCGC ID 39 08- CAACTCCTT NO: 49.6] CTGCTACGA 397 GAAC[G/A]A GCTGGCCTT CCTGAGCCG TGACGAGGA GGATGAGGC GGA chr 275807 G A CRIB p.G15 0.006 0.004 4.80 1.53 CCCCTCCTTG SEQ 17 75 A1 9S 37 16 E- [1.03- CAAGCCATG ID 02 2.28] GGCTGGTTC NO: AACAACGAA 398 GTC[G/A]GCT CCATGAAGA TACAAAGTG GGGCGTAAG TACAAAAAC A chr 276138 T C NUFIP p.T392 0.006 0.004 3.46 1.56 GCTGACATA SEQ 17 38 2 A 37 10 E- [1.05- GGGACCTGG ID 02 2.32] GATAAGCGA NO: CTTGATGAT 399 TGGG[T/C]CT GAGTTTCCC CGGTAGATG ATGAAGATG ATGAAGATG AA chr 368296 A C C17orf p.M35 0.020 0.000 2.25 Inf GAATTTGAG SEQ 17 76 96 8R 34 00 E- GCCAGGGGG ID 80 CTCAGGGAC NO: AGCGGGACC 400 CCCC[A/C]TC TGCCACCTC CACAGCGGG TGGGCGGGC GGGGGCTTA GA chr 389534 G C KRT28 p.P251 0.019 0.000 7.38 2199 CGCTCGCAT SEQ 17 72 R 36 01 E- .94[3 GTTGTTCAA ID 114 06.0 CAAAACCGC NO: 1- GAGGTCTAC 401 1581 CCCC[G/C]GG 5.81] GCCGCGTTC ATCTCCACG TTCACGTTG CCCCCAGCC GC chr 391908 A G KRTA p.S59S 0.006 0.000 1.98 Inf GCTGGCAGC SEQ 17 97 P1-3 86 00 E- AGCTGGTCT ID 41 CACAGCAGC No: TTGGCTGGC 402 AGCA[A/G]CT GGAGCTGCA GGTCCCACT AGTTGAGAA GCTAGGAAA TC chr 392743 C T KRTA p.R66 0.005 0.000 3.87 143. GCAGCTGGG SEQ 17 71 P4-11 H 15 04 E- 18[4 GCGACAGCA ID 27 9.13- GCTGGAGAT No: 417. GCAGCATCT 403 29] GGGG[C/T]GG CAGCAGGTG GGCTGGCAG CACACAGAC TGGCAGCAC TG chr 392744 T A KRTA p.S48 0.015 0.000 1.04 Inf TGGCAGCAC SEQ 17 26 P4-11 C 20 00 E- ACAGACTGG ID 90 CAGCACTGG No: GGCCTGCAG 404 CAGC[T/A]GG ACACACAGC AGCTGGGGC GACAGTAGG TGGTCCTGC AG chr 392744 A T KRTA p.C45 0.005 0.000 3.82 Inf ACAGACTGG SEQ 17 35 P4-11 S 64 00 E- CAGCACTGG ID 34 GGCCTGCAG No: CAGCTGGAC 405 ACAC[A/T]GC AGCTGGGGC GACAGTAGG TGGTCCTGC AGCAGGTGG TC chr 392744 C T KRTA p.C44 0.005 0.000 3.08 Inf AGACTGGCA SEQ 17 37 P4-11 Y 15 00 E- GCACTGGGG ID 31 CCTGCAGCA No: GCTGGACAC 406 ACAG[C/T]AG CTGGGGCGA CAGTAGGTG GTCCTGCAG CAGGTGGTC TC chr 393166 C T KRTA p.R107 0.011 0.000 4.62 Inf AGCAGGTGG SEQ 17 23 P4-4 R 52 00 E- GCTGGCAGC ID 69 ACACAGACT No: GGCAGCACT 407 GGGG[C/T]CT GCAGCAGCT GGGGCGGCA GCAGGTGGT CCTACAGCA GG chr 393462 A C KRTA p.T21 0.005 0.000 6.33 577. GCTGTCAGC SEQ 17 01 P9-1 T 15 01 E- 37[7 CTACATGCT ID 30 7.65- GCAGGACCA No: 4293 CCTGCTGCA 408 .3] GGAC[A/C]AC CTGCTGGAA GCCCACCAC TGTGACCAC CTGCAGCAG CA chr 393465 A C KRTA p.N14 0.024 0.000 2.06 Inf TGCTGCCAG SEQ 17 75 P9-1 6T 51 00 E- CCTACCTGC ID 133 TGCCAGCCC No: ACCTGCTGC 409 AGGA[A/C]C ACCTCTTGC CAGCCCACC TGCTGTGGG TCCAGCTGC TGC chr 422392 A G C17orf p.S645 0.007 0.004 2.63 1.55 ACTCCTGAG SEQ 17 92 53 G 11 60 E- [1.06- TGAGCTTCC ID 02 2.25] TGAAGACTT No: CTTCTGTGG 410 GACC[A/G]GT AGTTGAGAC TGCCCCAAC GCAGGACAA CCCACCATG AG chr 428829 G A GJC1 p.L71 0.008 0.004 3.63 1.74 CCACCAGGA SEQ 17 73 L 09 66 E- [1.22- TGATCTGGA ID 03 2.48] ACACCCAGA No: AGCGTACAT 411 GGGA[G/A]A GAGGTGCAA ACGCATCAT AACAGACAT TCTCACAGC CCG chr 439234 C T SPPL2 p.L380 0.011 0.007 4.61 1.59 TGTGCGGCT SEQ 17 10 C L 27 13 E- [1.18- GCCCACTCT ID 03 2.14] CAAGAACTG No: CTCCTCCTTC 412 CTG[C/T]TGG CCCTGCTGG CCTTTGATGT CTTCTTTGTC TTCGTCAC chr 452145 A C CDC2 p.N57 0.022 0.000 2.16 Inf ATACGACTT SEQ 17 23 7 5K 55 00 E- TGTCTTTGTA ID 134 CTTCATTACC No: ACTTACCAT 413 GC[A/C]TTAT AATGTCTAG GATTGACTC TGATAGCAT TTCGAAAAC chr 452146 C T CDC2 p.A53 0.005 0.000 1.38 Inf AGAGTATAG SEQ 17 54 7 2T 88 00 E- GCATAAGCG ID 35 TAATTTGGA No: TCAACTTGG 414 ATAG[C/T]TC TCTGGAAGA ATTTAATTG CAATATCAT GTTCCCGTT GC chr 452146 T C CDC2 p.S517 0.015 0.000 3.52 Inf TGGAAGAAT SEQ 17 99 7 G 93 00 E- TTAATTGCA ID 95 ATATCATGT No: TCCCGTTGC 415 AGAC[T/C]GA AACAGTTCC CTGCAGCAC ACCAGGCCT TAAAAAAAT GG chr 452162 A G CDC2 p.Y47 0.008 0.000 1.83 Inf GCCAAAGTG SEQ 17 16 7 0Y 58 00 E- TTGTAGAGT ID 51 AGATCTCCA No: TGCCTTCAA 416 CTCT[A/G]TA ATTCTCAAT CCTTCTAAC CTCTGAGAA TATTCTTTCA G chr 452192 T C CDC2 p.Y43 0.015 0.000 2.76 Inf ATAGGCCCT SEQ 17 83 7 5C 93 00 E- TCCAATTTG ID 95 GCACAGTAC No: CCAACCAGT 417 ATTG[T/C]AG TGGTGAGAA GGTAGATGG CTCAAAATA TTTATAGCTT C chr 452292 A G CDC2 p.T266 0.028 0.000 3.43 1102 CTCGGCTAT SEQ 17 61 7 T 92 03 E- .44[3 TTCCACTCTG ID 167 50.3 TGAGAAGAC No: 6- AGACTTTGT 418 3468 TCC[A/G]GTT .91] TGGCCGATT CTGGCAACA GACTGTAAA ACACGAAAA G chr 452342 G C CDC2 p.L214 0.017 0.000 6.35 2015 AAAGTATCT SEQ 17 98 7 V 89 01 E- .93[2 TGTTTGACTT ID 105 80.1 ACCTTGGGG No: 3- TTAATGGAC 419 1450 TAA[G/C]AGC 7.61] TGCTGGTCC TCCTAATAA ACTTCGACC AGTTTTTGGT chr 452493 T G CDC2 p.A54 0.005 0.000 1.90 32.6 TAGTACAAC SEQ 17 72 7 A 64 17 E- 9[17. TGTGTCCTTT ID 22 63- CAAGAGTCT No: 60.6 ATATGCTTT 420 2] ATA[T/G]GCC TTTCCTGAG CGGTAATAA CAGGTTGCC AGTAAAAAC A chr 486534 G C CACN p.G54 0.010 0.000 1.36 Inf CCACCACCC SEQ 17 06 A1G 8A 05 00 E- TCGACGCCT ID 53 GCCCTCTCC No: GGGGCCCCC 421 CCTG[G/C]TG GCGCAGAGT CTGTGCACA GCTTCTACC ATGCCGACT GC chr 559172 G A MRPS p.H14 0.012 0.007 1.02 1.65 CACTCAAGT SEQ 17 91 23 2H 50 59 E- [1.25- GTTCGGATT ID 03 2.2] TCCGGGAAA No: CGTGACTAC 422 CTCC[G/A]TG TTGCTTAAA AGACCAGAT TTAAGTATC ACAGAGATG TT chr 560566 C T VEZF1 p.Q34 0.010 0.000 2.60 18.2 TCCCTGGCC SEQ 17 07 8Q 29 57 E- [12.1 AGCTTGTCA ID 32 3- CATGTTGTT NO: 27.3 GTTGTTGTTG 423 2] TTG[C/T]TGC TGCTGCTGC TGCTGCTGC TGCTGCTGC TGCTGCTTTT chr 615685 C T ACE p.T342 0.009 0.006 1.34 1.52 CCCCAGTTT SEQ 17 77 M 80 47 E- [1.1- GGGCAGAAC ID 02 2.09] TCCCTCTGCT No: TGCAGGGCT 424 GGA[C/T]GCC CAGGAGGAT GTTTAAGGA GGCTGATGA TTTCTTCACC chr 616837 T C TACO p.H16 0.006 0.003 4.17 1.84 TATCTAACA SEQ 17 83 1 6H 86 75 E- [1.25- GTAGCCACA ID 03 2.69] AGTGCCAAG No: CAGACATTA 425 GACA[T/C]AT CCTGAATAA GAATGGGTA AGTGTGCGT CTGGGAGGA GT chr 620386 T C SCN4A p.H59 0.007 0.004 3.76 1.5[1 CACAGTGAG SEQ 17 02 9R 11 73 E- .03- CACGTTGTC ID 02 2.19] AAAGTGCTC NO: CGTCATGGG 426 GTAA[T/C]GT TCCATGGCC ATGAAGAGG GTGTTGAGC ACGATGCAG AT chr 742881 G A QRIC p.D72 0.009 0.000 2.53 1105 AACCAGGCT SEQ 17 47 H2 1D 80 01 E- .65[1 GATCTGCAC ID 57 51.9 CAGGTTGGA NO: 6- TCAAACCAC 427 8044 GCTG[G/A]TC .57] CATTCCAGG TTGGACCAA ACCACGCTG ATCCACTCC AG chr 742881 C T QRIC p.R713 0.006 0.000 5.40 Inf GATCAAACC SEQ 17 72 H2 H 62 00 E- ACGCTGGTC ID 40 CATTCCAGG No: TTGGACCAA 428 ACCA[C/T]GC TGATCCACT CCAGGTTGC ACCAAACCA CGCTGATCC AC chr 742882 C T QRIC p.R703 0.017 0.000 8.11 407 GACCAAACC SEQ 17 02 H2 H 89 04 E- [164. ACGCTGATC ID 100 39- CACTCCAGG NO: 1007 TTGCACCAA 429 .67] ACCA[C/T]GC TGATCCACT CCAGGTTGG ACCAAACCA CGCTGATCT GC chr 742884 A T QRIC p.V63 0.009 0.000 5.96 Inf ACCACGCTG SEQ 17 18 H2 1D 31 00 E- AACTGCACC ID 56 AGGTTGCAC NO: CAAACCACG 430 CTGA[A/T]CT ATACCAGGT TGCACCAAA CTACGCTGA ACTTCACCA GG chr 742885 C T QRIC p.R572 0.007 0.000 1.92 799. CAAACCACG SEQ 17 95 H2 H 11 01 E- 67[1 CTGATGATC ID 41 08.9 TGCACGAGG NO: 1- TTGTGCCAA 431 5871 ACCA[C/T]GC .76] TGATCTACT CCAGGTTGG ACCAAACCA TGCTGAACT GC chr 743831 T C SPHK1 p.R285 0.005 0.002 1.15 1.82 GTCTGGGGG SEQ 17 09 R 15 84 E- [1.17- AGATGCGCT ID 02 2.83] TCACTCTGG NO: GCACCTTCC 432 TGCG[T/C]CT GGCAGCCCT GCGCACCTA CCGCGGCCG ACTGGCCTA CC chr 768883 G A LOC10 p.G89 0.010 0.007 4.44 1.39 TCCACAGCT SEQ 17 19 065351 G 78 79 E- [1.02- TGGCATCCG ID 5 02 1.9] CTCTTCTCTG NO: CAGAGCGAG 433 ATC[G/A]CCT TTGCCCCGG GCTTGTAGC AATTTGTGC TTTTTCCTCC chr 792545 C T SLC38 p.V16 0.006 0.003 1.29 1.72 CACTGCCCA SEQ 17 30 A10 9M 37 72 E- [1.15- CTGAAGAGG ID 02 2.56] CCGTGCTTG NO: AGAGAGGAG 434 AGCA[C/T]GA TCTGCAGAG GGAGAGGGG AGAGAGCAC GGGGCAGGT CA chr 796820 T C SLC25 p.I57T 0.005 0.002 1.51 2.24 ATGACGGGC SEQ 17 59 A10 15 31 E- [1.43- ATGGCGCTG ID 03 3.5] CGGGTGGTG NO: CGTACCGAC 435 GGCA[T/C]CC TGGCACTCT ACAGCGGCC TGAGCGCCT CGCTGTGCA GA 798471 chr G A ALYRE p.R148 0.005 0.003 1.10 1.78 GCTCAAAGT SEQ 17 52 F R 64 17 E- [1.17- GCACGTCTG ID 02 2.72] CTGTTCCTA NO: AGCTGCGAC 436 CAGA[G/A]C GATCATAGT GCACAGCCG CCTTCTTCAG CGTTCCAAA TT chr 799545 G A ASPSC p.L252 0.018 0.000 1.09 2063 CTGCCCCCTT SEQ 17 45 R1 L 38 01 E- .13[2 TGTTCCTTTC ID 107 86.7 TCGGGTGGG NO: 9- GGACAGAGA 437 1484 CT[G/A]GGGG 2.01] GCCCTCCTG GGCCCACGA GGCCTCTGA CATCATCTT chr 805296 G T FOXK p.P259 0.009 0.006 1.23 1.55 GTTTTGTGTT SEQ 17 14 2 P 80 35 E- [1.12- TGTTTTTTAA ID 02 2.14] ATACAGGAT No: GATTCAAAG 438 CC[G/T]CCTT ACTCCTACG CGCAGCTGA TAGTTCAGG CGATTACGA chr 808993 T C TBCD p.L118 0.011 0.006 3.07 1.62 AACCGTCTG SEQ 17 49 5P 27 98 E- [1.2- TGTGACCTT ID 03 2.19] CTGGGCGTA No: CCCAGGCCC 439 CAGC[T/C]GG TGCCCCAGG TAACCCTGT CACCTTCAC AGCATGAGG TG chr 345222 T C TGIF1 p.P82P 0.006 0.000 1.05 9.21 CGACCCCCT SEQ 18 3 13 67 E- [5.81- CTGCGCTCC ID 14 14.5 TGGGGTCCT No: 91] CCTGCGCCC 440 CCCC[T/C]CC TCCACCGGC GCGCTGCCC ACAGCCGCG TGCCCTCTCC C chr 939652 C T TWSG p.A15 0.006 0.003 4.36 1.54 CACCACCAG SEQ 18 4 1 7V 13 99 E- [1.03- AATGTGTCT ID 02 2.31] GTCCCCAGC No: AATAATGTT 441 CACG[C/T]GC CTTATTCCA GTGACAAAG GTAACTGCC AACAGTTGA CT chr 988737 C A TXND p.L232 0.010 0.000 4.36 99.4 CAAGTCCCC SEQ 18 1 C2 I 29 10 E- 4[49. AGAAGAAGC ID 49 86- CATCCAGCC No: 198. CAAGGAGGG 442 331] TGAC[C/A]TC CCCAAGTCC CTAGAGGAA GCCATCCAG CCCAAGGAG GG chr 125467 A G SPIRE p.A46 0.005 0.002 1.16 1.82 CTTCTTCTGC SEQ 18 78 1 A 15 84 E- [1.17- AGCCTCATA ID 02 2.83] GCCCTCATC No: ATTGCTACC 443 GTC[A/G]GCT TCCACCGTG TTGGCCATG TGATCGATA AGCTGCTCT A chr 189642 G A GREB p.E93 0.007 0.004 1.32 1.65 CAATCTAAC SEQ 18 86 1L K 60 61 E- [1.14- AGTTAATGA ID 02 2.4] AATGGAAGA No: TGATGAAGA 444 CGAT[G/A]AA GAAATGTCT GATTCAAAC AGCCCACCA ATTCCCTATT C chr 289343 A G DSG1 p.I739 0.011 0.007 8.43 1.54 TGTAGGTTC SEQ 18 74 V 03 18 E- [1.14- CCCTGCTGG ID 03 2.09] CTCTGTGGG No: TTGTTGTAG 445 CTTC[A/G]TT GGAGAAGAC CTGGATGAC AGCTTCTTG GATACCCTG GG chr 337850 G A MOCO p.Q35 0.012 0.009 1.86 1.42 GAATGGAGA SEQ 18 83 S 4Q 75 01 E- [1.07- ATATAAAGC ID 02 1.88] AGCACACCT No: TCACCTTGG 446 CTCA[G/A]TA TACCTACGT GGCCCTGTC CTCTCTCCA GTACCCCAA TG chr 641789 C A CDH1 p.V48 0.005 0.000 1.39 618. ATGGATTCA SEQ 18 22 9 7L 88 01 E- 95[8 TCTCTATCCA ID 33 3.71- CTGCACTGA No: 4576 TAGTCTGAA 447 .34] TTA[C/A]CTA AAAAAAAAG GGGGATAGA TTTTTGTTGT TGTTTGGAT chr 721140 G A FAM6 p.A22 0.006 0.003 1.29 1.75 TGCCCTGTG SEQ 18 55 9C 1V 62 79 E- [1.16- GTGGGGGCT ID 02 2.65] GCCCGCGGC No: CAGGAACTC 448 CACC[G/A]CG TAGAAGTGG CCGCAGGAA CCCAGCACG GGCAGCACG TG chr 723467 T C ZNF40 p.G12 0.008 0.005 1.66 1.56 ATTGTGAGG SEQ 18 01 7 42G 33 35 E- [1.1- GTGAAGGAG ID 02 2.21] GAAACGCAG No: GAGACGGTG 449 GAGG[T/C]GT TGTCCCCCA CAGACACCT GTGCCCTGT GACGCTCGA TG chr 287703 G A PPAP2 p.R85 0.010 0.006 9.91 1.53 ACCTTGTAT SEQ 19 C C 54 93 E- [1.12- ACAGCAGCC ID 03 2.08] ACGTAGTTG No: TTGAAGTCC 450 GAGC[G/A]A GAATAGAGC CGGTCTGTG TACACCAGG TAGGCTTCC CCG chr 474688 T G ODF3 p.R20 0.012 0.006 1.39 1.85 ACTTCCTCA SEQ 19 L2 R 25 67 E- [1.38- GGCCGGTCT ID 04 2.47] CCGGAATCT No: GGCCCTCCG 451 TCAC[T/G]CG CCGGCCAAG GGGGGCTGT GGCCAGCCG TGGGGTGGA GT chr 104374 C T ABCA7 p.L318 0.005 0.003 1.35 1.79 GGGGGTGCT SEQ 19 7 L 39 01 E- [1.16- GTCCACAGG ID 02 2.76] TGAACCGGA No: CCTTCGAGG 452 AGCT[C/T]AC CCTGCTGAG GGATGTCCG GGAGGTGTG GGAGATGCT GG chr 143033 C T DAZA p.F280 0.007 0.000 5.26 Inf TGTCCACCC SEQ 19 0 P1 F 11 00 E- CTCCTGGAG ID 40 GCTTTCCCCC No: TCCCCAGGG 453 CTT[C/T]CCT CAGGGCTAC GGTGCCCCG CCACAGTTC AGTAAGTCT A chr 145711 C A APC2 p.P359 0.029 0.000 8.67 2568 CGCGCCAAC SEQ 19 1 Q 90 01 E- .75[3 GCGGCGCTG ID 162 58.8 CACAACATC No: 6- GTCTTCTCGC 454 1838 AGC[C/A]GG 7.26] ACCAGGGCC TGGCGCGCA AGGAGATGC GCGTCCTGC AC chr 162098 G T TCF3 p.P360 0.015 0.000 1.11 103. TCCCCTCCCC SEQ 19 0 P 20 15 E- 81[5 CCAAAACCC ID 64 1.56- TCACAGACC No: 209. TGCCAGGCC 455 02] CTG[G/T]GGG GAGCCCACG GGGGTAGAA GGGCTGGAC GAGAAGTTA T chr 177540 C G ONEC p.G48 0.006 0.000 1.74 Inf TGAACCGCT SEQ 19 8 UT3 3G 13 00 E- GGGCTGAGG ID 27 AGCCCAGCA NO: CGGCCCCCG 456 GGGG[C/G]CC CGCCGGCGC CACGGCCAC TTTCTCCAA GGCCTGAGG CG chr 224844 A G SF3A2 p.N43 0.012 0.000 3.76 Inf CCTGGGGTC SEQ 19 5 2S 25 00 E- CACCCTCAG ID 47 CCTCCGGGA NO: GTTCACCCC 457 TCAA[A/G]TC CTGGGGTGC ACCCCCCAA CTCCCATGC CCCCAATGC TG chr 225042 A G ANIH p.Y16 0.007 0.000 2.29 171. GGAGGAGCT SEQ 19 3 7C 84 05 E- 42[5 GGCCCCCCA ID 36 2.47- GAGCTGGCG NO: 560. CTGCTGGTG 458 02] CTGT[A/G]CC CTGGGCCTG GCCCTGAGG TCACTGTGA CGAGGGCTG GG chr 287732 C T ZNF55 p.R122 0.008 0.005 4.26 1.46 AAGGGTGGA SEQ 19 0 6 C 09 57 E- [1.02- GAGACCATG ID 02 2.07] TAAAAGCAG NO: TAAAGGTAA 459 TAAA[C/T]GT GGAAGAACC TTCAGAAAG ACTCGAAAT TGTAATCGT CA chr 395944 G A DAPK p.R340 0.007 0.005 2.43 1.55 CCACGTCCT SEQ 19 4 3 R 84 07 E- [1.08- CGTGGCAGA ID 02 2.24] GCCGCCGGC NO: TGCGCTGCA 460 GCTC[G/A]CG CAGGCCCTC CTCGGCGGC CGCCGCCTC CTCCAGCAC CT chr 451121 C G PLIN4 p.S906 0.007 0.000 3.99 Inf ACTGCAGAC SEQ 19 3 T 84 00 E- GGTGTCCTT ID 45 GGTACCGGT NO: CAGGACAGT 461 CTTG[C/G]TG GTGTCCACG CCGGTCTGG ACAGTCCCT TTGGCCAAG TT chr 451351 C T PLIN4 p.K13 0.006 0.000 1.43 681. GGACAGCCT SEQ 19 9 7K 13 01 E- 44[9 TCGAGGTGT ID 35 2.31- CCAGACCCC No: 5030 CTTGGACGG 462 .26] CCCC[C/T]TT AGCCATGTC CATGGCCCC TGTGACCCC GCTGGACAC CA chr 572022 C T LONP NM_ 0.012 not 2.62 Inf CGCCGCGAA SEQ 19 9 1 001276480: 76 found E- ACGCACGTG ID c.- 24 ACGCCCGGC No: 160 + 1 GCGTGCCTC 463 G > A GGTA[C/T]CC GATGGGCGC GTGGCTCGA AACAGCCGC TTCAGGGAG CT chr 583160 G A FUT6 p.T324 0.009 0.006 1.69 1.5[1 GCAGAAAGC SEQ 19 8 M 56 38 E- .09- GAGTGCCCA ID 02 2.08] GCTGAAGGA No: GCGAGGCCG 464 CAGC[G/A]TC TCCCGCCAG CGAAAGTAG CTCAGGTAG CGGGCGTGG TC chr 813810 C T FBN3 p.V25 0.007 0.004 9.73 1.66 CCCCCGAGG SEQ 19 4 94I 60 59 E- [1.15- GCCTGATCA ID 03 2.39] AAGTCAAAG No: CCAGAGGGG 465 CAGA[C/T]GC AGCGGAAGC CACCAAGAG TGTTGCGAC AGGAGGCGC TC chr 815480 G A FBN3 p.P207 0.006 0.000 1.44 Inf TGGGTGAGG SEQ 19 2 6S 86 00 E- GGCTCACCT ID 40 TCTCGGGAG No: TCATCCGGG 466 CCTG[G/A]GA CTGCCCCGT GGCCAAAGG GGCAGAGCT CCTGAAAGG CA chr 837316 C T CD320 p.G4D 0.006 0.003 2.31 1.77 CAGAGCCCC SEQ 19 4 51 69 E- [1.07- TGTTCGCCA ID 02 2.78] CGCTCCAAC No: CTGCGCCAT 467 CCAA[C/T]CG CCGCTCATG CTGTCCCCA CAGCGGCGC CGGCCACGC GC chr 839896 A G KANK p.D48 0.022 0.000 1.53 Inf AGCTACCCG SEQ 19 1 3 9D 30 00 E- GGGGCTCGG ID 101 CGCCACCGT No: TCTCGCTGTC 468 GCC[A/G]TCG CTGTCGCTG GCGTCCTCG CTGGAGGAG CTCTCGTAC C chr 856436 G T PRAM p.P109 0.006 0.000 1.85 373. CAGTTTGGA SEQ 19 6 1 Q 86 02 E- 54[8 CGGCTTCTT ID 38 8.96- GGGGAGGTC No: 1568 AGTGACCTC 469 .57] AGGC[G/T]GC GGGGGCTTC TTGGGGAGG TCAGTGACC TCAGGCGGC GG chr 905982 A G MUC1 p.S920 0.013 0.009 9.32 1.47 GTATCTGTA SEQ 19 7 6 7P 24 05 E- [1.11- GTGACTTCA ID 03 1.93] GTGATGGCC No: AGTATTTCA 470 GCTG[A/G]GG TGCTGCTCA AATTTGGGG GTGAACTGG TTTCAGGTTC T chr 907288 G C MUC1 p.P485 0.005 0.003 4.88 1.54 ATGGTGGAG SEQ 19 6 6 4A 64 66 E- [1.01- GTGGTAACA ID 02 2.35] TTTGGAGAT No: GTGACTTTA 471 GATG[G/C]CT CTGGGTAAG CTGAGACAG TAGAATGTG ATTCAAATG CT chr 923755 G A OR7G p.P25S 0.008 0.004 1.80 1.67 GTGGCCAGG SEQ 19 4 3 133 873 E- [1.07- TACATGGAC ID 02 2.5] AGGAACAGC No: ATGAAGAGG 472 ATGG[G/A]CT GCAGCTCCG GATCCCCTG ACAATCCCA AGAGAAAGA AT chr 114887 G A EPOR p.P488 0.005 0.003 2.60 1.66 GGCAGAGGC SEQ 19 25 S 39 25 E- [1.08- TCAGCGGCT ID 02 2.56] GGGATAAGG No: CTGTTCTCAT 473 AAG[G/A]GTT GGAGTAGGG GCCATCGGA TAAGCCCCC TTGGGCTCC C chr 120606 A G ZNF70 p.Q59 0.005 0.000 4.11 6.32 AAAGGACTC SEQ 19 27 0 6Q 15 82 E- [3.93- ACACTGGAG ID 10 10.1 AGAAACCCT NO: 6] ATGAGTGTA 474 AGCA[A/G]TG TGGGAAAGC CTTCAGTTGT GCCTCAAAC CTTCGAAAG C chr 121556 A G ZNF87 p.C173 0.007 0.000 2.32 Inf GAACAGAAC SEQ 19 97 8 C 35 00 E- TGGGAAAAC ID 44 TGAATGCTT NO: TCCCACACT 475 GCTT[A/G]CA TTCATAGGG TTTTTTTGCA GAGTGGATT CTTTCATGTC chr 125014 C T ZNF79 p.P587 0.005 0.000 1.69 115. TGAGAGAAG SEQ 19 51 9 P 15 04 E- 34[4 CAAATGCTT ID 26 3.47- TCCCACATT No: 306. CCTTACATTC 476 02] ATA[C/T]GGG TTCTCTCCAG TATGAGTTTT TTCATGTCCT TGAAGAA chr 125411 C T ZNF44 p.P615 0.013 0.000 1.75 1489 TGAGAGAAG SEQ 19 41 3 P 24 01 E- .83[2 CAAATGCTT ID 77 06.0 TCCCACATT NO: 5- CCTTACATTC 477 1077 ATA[C/T]GGG 1.89] TTCTCTCCAG TATGAGTTTT TTCATGTCCT TGAAGAA chr 141045 G C RFX1 p.P34 0.006 0.000 9.57 Inf GCAGCGGTG SEQ 19 56 A 37 00 E- GGTGGCTGC ID 37 GGGGGCTGG NO: GGTGCCGCT 478 GGGG[G/C]TG GTGGCGGTG GCGGCTGGG GCTGGGCTT GTGGCGGGG CC chr 153539 G A BRD4 p.P982 0.017 0.000 8.48 Inf CGTGGAGGG SEQ 19 36 S 65 00 E- GGCTGATGC ID 60 TGCTGCTGG NO: GGTGGAGGC 479 TGGG[G/A]CT GGGGTGGTG GGGGTGGTG GCGGCTGCT GCTGCAGCT GC chr 162756 C T CIB3 p.G13 0.007 0.000 3.10 88.1 ACCTTCTCA SEQ 19 56 9R 84 09 E- 6[43. CATACCAGG ID 38 31- CTCACCTCCT No: 179. CGGCACTCA 480 45] GCC[C/T]CCC CCGCGTCAG TTTGGTCAC CGTCTGCTC CAGGTCCCA C chr 170390 A C CPAM p.S110 0.005 0.003 2.24 1.67 GGCCTCGGG SEQ 19 23 D8 3A 88 53 E- [1.11- AGGGTCCAG ID 02 2.53] GCCACAATG No: ACAGACTCA 481 TTGG[A/C]TG GCTCTGGAC CATGGCCAA CCTGGAAAA AGAAACCAA GG chr 178816 G A FCHO p.R186 0.009 0.006 4.21 1.41 GAGAGCCTG SEQ 19 68 1 Q 56 78 E- [1.02- CGGCGCTCA ID 02 1.95] GTGGAAAAA No: TACAACTCA 482 GCCC[G/A]AG CTGACTTTG AGCAGAAGA TGCTGGACT CAGCCCTGG TA chr 178889 A G FCHO p.E423 0.006 0.004 4.13 1.51 AGAAGCAGC SEQ 19 54 1 G 62 38 E- [1.03- CCTCTTGGC ID 02 2.23] CTCACCCTCT No: CTAGCTGTG 483 CAG[A/G]GA GATTGCAGT CAGAGGAGC AGGTGTCCA AGAACCTCT TT chr 197446 C T GAWP p.E795 0.009 0.005 8.03 1.61 AGGCCCTCT SEQ 19 14 K 07 65 E- [1.15- CCATAGCTG ID 03 2.26] TGGGCCCAG No: TGGGTTCTT 484 ACCT[C/T]GG TAGGTGTGG CCGTGGGAT GCTGCTCCA GGGTACTGT GG chr 202294 C A ZNF90 p.G34 0.018 0.000 3.39 Inf TCCATACTG SEQ 19 04 7G 14 00 E- GAGAGAAAC ID 108 CCTACAAAT No: GTGAAGAAT 485 GTGG[C/A]AA AGCCTTCAG GCGCTCCTT AGTCCTTCG TACACATAA GA chr 202295 C A ZNF90 p.G40 0.008 0.000 2.64 Inf GTCATAGTG SEQ 19 72 3G 82 00 E- AAAAGAAAC ID 52 CCTACAAAT No: GTGAAGAAT 486 GTGG[C/A]AA AGCCTTCAA GCGCTCCTC AACACTTAC TATACATAA GA chr 212400 T C ZNF43 p.F298 0.011 0.000 4.36 Inf TGGAGAGAA SEQ 19 06 0 L 03 00 E- ACCCTACAG ID 66 ATGTGAAGA No: ATGTGGCAA 487 AACC[T/C]TT AACCGGTCC TCACACCTT ACTACACAT AAAAGAATT CA chr 217194 T A ZNF42 p.H19 0.010 0.007 3.83 1.41 TTTGCATGCT SEQ 19 40 9 5Q 05 15 E- [1.03- TTCACAACT ID 02 1.93] AACTCAACA No: TAAGAAAAT 488 TCA[T/A]ATT AGAGAGAAT ACCTACAGA TGTAAAGAA TTTGGCAAT G chr 221543 A C ZNF20 p.V11 0.024 0.000 1.90 Inf AAAGCCTTT SEQ 19 42 8 65G 02 00 E- GCCACATTC ID 142 TTCACATTTG No: TAGGGTTTC 489 TCT[A/C]CAG TATGAATTTT CTTATGATA ACTAAGGGT TGAGGACCA chr 221548 A T ZNF20 p.C100 0.005 0.003 4.87 1.54 AGGTTTGAT SEQ 19 29 8 3S 64 66 E- [1.01- GACCAGTTG ID 02 2.35] AAAGCTTTG No: CCACATTCTT 490 CAC[A/T]TTT GTAGGGTTT CTCTCCAGT ATGAATTAC CTTATGTTTA chr 221556 A G ZNF20 p.H71 0.017 0.000 2.21 1917 TTTTGCCAC SEQ 19 91 8 5H 65 01 E- .14[2 ATTCTTCAC ID 102 66.3 ATTTGTAGG No: 5- GTTTCTCTCC 491 1379 AGT[A/G]TGA 9.28] ATTCTCTTAT GTTCCATAA GGTTTGAGG ACCAGTTGA chr 222719 G A ZNF25 p.E456 0.014 0.000 6.24 Inf GTCTTCATA SEQ 19 18 7 K 71 00 E- CCTTATTCG ID 88 ACATAAGAT No: AATTCATAC 492 TGGA[G/A]A GAAACCCTA CAAATGTGA AGAGTGTGG CAAAGCCTT TAA chr 222720 A G ZNF25 p.I507 0.016 0.000 8.46 926. CAAAGCCTT SEQ 19 71 7 V 42 02 E- 98[2 TAACCGGTC ID 95 27.0 TTCACACCTT No: 4- TCTCAACAT 493 3784 AAG[A/G]TA .7] ATTCATACT GGAGAGAAA CCCTACAAA TGTGAAGAA TG chr 228476 G A ZNF49 p.K39 0.008 0.000 2.33 Inf CACACCTTA SEQ 19 44 2 1K 09 00 E- CTACACATA ID 48 AGAGAATTC No: ATACTGGAG 494 AGAA[G/A]C CCTACAAAT GTGAAGAAT GTGGCAAAG CTTTTAACCT AT chr 351753 G A ZNF30 p.D12 0.008 0.004 4.44 1.71 ATTTTCAAA SEQ 19 06 2 2N 33 89 E- [1.21- TTCTAATAA ID 03 2.42] GAATTTGGA No: ATATACAGA 495 ATGC[G/A]AC ACATTTAGA AGCACCTTT CATTCAAAG TCTACTCTTT C chr 360024 T C DMKN p.S276 0.006 0.001 1.79 6.01 CTGCCACCA SEQ 19 05 G 37 07 E- [3.87- CTGCTGCCG ID 11 9.32] CCACTGCTG No: CCGCCACTG 496 CTGC[T/C]GC CACTGCTGC TGCCACCAC TGCTGCTGC CATTGTTGTT G chr 383774 C T WDR8 p.E229 0.009 0.000 5.77 Inf CCTCCTCCTT SEQ 19 17 7 8E 07 00 E- CCTTTCCTCC ID 42 TCCTCCTCCC No: TTACCTCCTC 497 [C/T]TCCTCC CTTTCCTCTT CTTCCTCCCT TTCCTCCTCC TCCT chr 383792 C T WDR8 p.A16 0.005 0.003 8.94 1.86 ATTTCTTGGC SEQ 19 29 7 94A 64 03 E- [1.21- CAGTTTCTTC ID 03 2.88] CTTTTCTGGG NO: CCAATTTCTC 498 [C/T]GCCTCC TGGCTTAGC TTCTCCCCTC TTTGGGCCA GTGTTT chr 388172 G A KCNK KCNK6 0.006 0.000 1.69 108. AAAAGAAAA SEQ 19 32 6 (NM_ 86 06 E- 13[4 AGATTTACC ID 004823: 34 7.2- CTTTACTCTC No: exon2: 247. TTTACTCCCC 499 c.3 68] TA[G/A]GCTA 23- TGGGTACAC 1G > A) AACGCCACT GACTGATGC GGGCAAGGC chr 404084 G A FCGB p.S147 0.006 0.000 6.61 702. AATCTTTCA SEQ 19 20 P 3S 37 01 E- 38[9 AGGGACCCT ID 37 5.29- GGGGATCCA NO: 5177 CCAGCTTGT 500 .19] GGCA[G/A]G AGGACAGTG GCCCTGTGG GGCTGGAGA GGAGCCCAC AGA chr 404086 T A FCGB p.Q13 0.006 0.003 8.36 2.11 CTTGGGGTC SEQ 19 85 P 85L 37 03 E- [1.41- GCCGTTGTA ID 04 3.15] GTTCCCACA NO: CAGGCCACA 501 CATC[T/A]GC TGGTAGTAG TTTCCGGGG ACGGTGACC CGCACATAG TA chr 405805 A T ZNF78 p.C615 0.006 0.004 2.82 1.57 AGCTGGGTG SEQ 19 06 0A S 62 24 E- [1.06- GGAAGACTA ID 02 2.31] AAAACCTTT NO: CCACATTCC 502 TTAC[A/T]TT CAAAGGGTT TCTCACCAG TATGCAATT TCTGATGTC GA chr 413558 A G CYP2A p.L73 0.005 0.002 1.18 2.55 GCATCATGT SEQ 19 49 6 L 88 32 E- [1.67- CCACACAGC ID 04 3.88] ACCACGACC NO: CGCCGGGGC 503 CCCA[A/G]GT GAATGGTGA ACACGGGGC CATAGCGCT CACTGATCT GA chr 416339 A G CYP2F p.P472 0.008 0.004 1.79 1.84 TGCAGCCGC SEQ 19 27 1 P 09 41 E- +[1.29- TGGGTGCGC ID 03 2.62] CCGAGGACA No: TCGACCTGA 504 CCCC[A/G]CT CAGCTCAGG TCTTGGCAA TTTGCCGCG GCCTTTCCA GC chr 428553 C T MEGF p.P847 0.009 0.000 3.25 Inf TGGGGTTCT SEQ 19 73 8 P 31 00 E- GACTCCTCT ID 47 GCCCAACTG No: ACCCCCAGG 505 ACCC[C/T]TT CTGTGAGTG GCATCAGAG CACCAGCCG CAAAGGGGA CG chr 434117 C T PSG6 p.L325 0.005 0.001 8.18 3.69 CTGGCCCAC SEQ 19 38 L 39 47 E- [2.36- AGAGGAACA ID 07 5.76] AAGGATACT No: CACAGAGGA 506 CATT[C/T]AG GGTGACTGG GTTACTGCG GATGCCACC ATATCGGTC CC chr 434117 G A PSG6 p.T324 0.005 0.001 2.40 4.64 CCCACAGAG SEQ 19 42 I 39 17 E- [2.95- GAACAAAGG ID 08 7.29] ATACTCACA No: GAGGACATT 507 CAGG[G/A]TG ACTGGGTTA CTGCGGATG CCACCATAT CGGTCCCGT AT chr 440651 C T XRCC p.E50 0.006 0.004 2.90 1.56 CATCATTCC SEQ 19 67 1 E 62 26 E- [1.06- CAATGTCCA ID 02 2.3] CACTGTGTA No: TCTGCTCCTC 508 CTT[C/T]TCC AACTGTGGG CAGAGAGAG AGGCCACTG TCAGTGCCT G chr 445006 A T ZNF15 p.Q22 0.005 0.002 1.84 1.76 GGCAAGGAA SEQ 19 77 5 3L 15 93 E- [1.13- TTTAGTCAA ID 02 2.74] AGCTCACAT No: CTGCAAACT 509 CATC[A/T]GA GAGTCCACA CTGGAGAGA AACCATTCA AATGTGAGC AA chr 448906 A G ZNF28 p.L578 0.008 0.005 1.46 1.57 TTATAATGTT SEQ 19 74 5 P 82 64 E- [1.12- TCTCTCTGCT ID 02 2.2] CATGTAGTC No: TTTGATGAG 510 TC[A/G]GAAG GTCCTTTCCA CGCTCACAA TGTGTGTAC TGTGTCTC chr 458987 A G PPP1R p.P435 0.008 0.000 1.83 26.8 CAGGGGGCC SEQ 19 43 13L P 33 31 E- [12.4- ATGTCTGTT ID 22 57.9 GGGGATGCT No: 3] GGGGGGCTG 511 GGGT[A/G]G GGGTTTGGG GTTGGGTCT GGGGCTGTG GGGGCAGCT GGG chr 461377 G A EML2 p.R213 0.006 0.000 1.59 Inf TCCCCGGTG SEQ 19 13 X 62 00 E- GGCAGCAAA ID 39 TAAAGGTTG No: GCCCGGCAG 512 TCTC[G/A]GC CACGGTAGC CATAGCTGG AGCCACCCA GGGGCTGGT TA chr 462154 G C FBXO p.P420 0.005 0.000 3.35 595. GCCGGGCGC SEQ 19 95 46 R 88 01 E- 7[80. AGTGGCCGG ID 33 57- GGAGTCGGC No: 4404 CGGGGGTGG 513 .4[ CTCC[G/C]GG GGCCCGTCC GGCCCGCGG TTCTGGAGA AAGAAGAGC TG chr 463139 C G RSPH6 p.A27 0.006 0.003 3.10 1.58 CCTGTTCGC SEQ 19 18 A 7A 13 90 E- +[1.05- CTTCAGTGC ID 02 2.36] CGCCTCCAC No: TCCGGGTGA 514 ACAG[C/G]GC CTTCTGTTTC TCCGCCATC TTGTAGGTG GGCTGCATC T chr 472042 C T PRKD p.V32 0.011 0.008 4.45 1.36 TTGTCAGCC SEQ 19 07 2 4M 27 30 E- [1.01- TCGCTGAAA ID 02 1.83] TCGGTGGCC No: TCCTCCATC 515 GGCA[C/T]AT CTGTGGGGA CGGAGGCAT CAGAGGGGT CTCCACCCA GT chr 475752 A G ZC3H4 p.H62 0.005 0.002 4.03 2.49 CAGGGTGCA SEQ 19 94 9H 15 07 E- [1.58- TGTCCGGGT ID 04 3.93] GCATGTCGG No: GGTGCATGT 516 CAGG[A/G]TG CATTGGACC GCCCATTGG CCCTGGGGG TCCCATGTT GG chr 486245 C T LIG1 p.V68 0.013 0.009 1.28 1.44 AGGTAGGCG SEQ 19 55 5M 24 24 E- [1.09- CCGATCACC ID 02 1.89] ACCAGGTCC No: AGGGTGTCA 517 CCCA[C/T]GC CATCAAGGT AGTCCTTCTT CAGCTGGGA GAAGGGGAG G chr 486433 G A LIG1 p.L304 0.005 0.002 1.28 1.97 CCAAGCTCC SEQ 19 12 F 21 65 E- [1.11- AGGCCCTGC ID 02 3.26] TGGGGTGGC No: CCAAGGTGG 518 TTGA[G/A]GC TGAGGTAGA GGACAGGGA GGAGGTCTG GAGGCGACA GG chr 499318 T G GFY p.L456 0.006 0.001 1.97 3.86 CCAGAGATG SEQ 19 84 V 37 66 E- [2.44- ACCACGCCC ID 07 6.11] CTTTGCACC No: CACAGTTCT 519 GCAT[T/G]TG GACGCCCCG AAAGACCCC TACGACCTC TACTTTTATG C chr 515180 T C KLK10 p.N27 0.013 0.000 4.10 525. CATAACATC SEQ 19 60 6S 97 03 E- 15[1 TGGATCAGC ID 79 64.3 TGGAGCGTA No: 9- GCATCTGGA 520 1677 TCAG[T/C]TG .55] GAGCGTATG ACTTTATTG ATCCAGGAC ATGTATTTG CA chr 516283 G T SIGLE p.G54 0.009 0.000 5.23 Inf TGCTCCTTCT SEQ 19 92 C9 V 31 00 E- CCTACCCCT ID 56 CGCATGGCT No: GGATTTACC 521 CTG[G/T]CCC AGTAGTTCA TGGCTACTG GTTCCGGGA AGGGGCCAA T chr 519197 C A LOC10 p.C38 0.005 0.002 3.44 1.98 GTGTGGACC SEQ 19 82 012908 X 88 98 E- [1.3- AGACGCCAT ID 3 03 3.02] TCCCATCCC No: CCTCCCAGG 522 GCTG[C/A]GG CGGCATCCT GGGACCCCA CAGCTTCCT CTCCCTGGA TG chr 519197 G C LOC10 p.G39 0.005 0.002 3.33 1.99 GTGGACCAG SEQ 19 84 012908 A 88 97 E- [1.3- ACGCCATTC ID 3 03 3.04] CCATCCCCC No: TCCCAGGGC 523 TGCG[G/C]CG GCATCCTGG GACCCCACA GCTTCCTCTC CCTGGATGC T chr 519198 G A LOC10 p.A58 0.008 0.005 3.85 1.72 CCACAGCTT SEQ 19 40 012908 T 82 15 E- [1.23- CCTCTCCCTG ID 3 03 2.42] GATGCTCCT No: GAGCTGGGA 524 GCC[G/A]CTC ACTGTCCCA CTGGGCTCC TCCACCTCC CCACCCACC G chr 528880 T A ZNF88 p.H39 0.018 0.000 1.62 106. GCAAGGTCT SEQ 19 30 0 9Q 63 18 E- 63[5 TCAGGCACA ID 81 7.96- AGTTTTGTCT No: 196. AACCAATCA 525 18] TCA[T/A]AGA ATGCACACG GGAGAGCAA CCTTACAAA TGTAATGAA T chr 528880 A G ZNF88 p.M40 0.018 0.000 5.01 102. GGTCTTCAG SEQ 19 34 0 1V 87 19 E- 4[55. GCACAAGTT ID 81 69- TTGTCTAAC No: 188. CAATCATCA 526 29] TAGA[A/G]TG CACACGGGA GAGCAACCT TACAAATGT AATGAATGT GG chr 528880 G T ZNF88 p.M40 0.019 0.000 1.04 99.0 TCTTCAGGC SEQ 19 36 0 1I 85 20 E- 5[55. ACAAGTTTT ID 84 1- GTCTAACCA No: 178. ATCATCATA 527 05] GAAT[G/T]CA CACGGGAGA GCAACCTTA CAAATGTAA TGAATGTGG CA chr 531165 C T ZNF83 p.G43 0.007 0.004 2.91 1.65 CCGATGATG SEQ 19 14 5E 482 537 E- [1.04- TGCTAGGGA ID 02 2.52] TGAGTTTAG No: ACCGAAGAC 528 CTTC[C/T]CA CATTCATTA CATTTATAA GCTTTTTCTC CAGTATGAA T chr 532689 G A ZNF60 p.P693 0.012 0.000 4.13 1466 CTGCTTGCT SEQ 19 31 0 L 99 01 E- .88]2 AAAGGCTTT ID 76 02.8 GCCACACTC NO: 1- ATTACACTT 529 1060 GTAA[G/A]GT 9.54] TTCTCTCCAG TGTGAAGTC CAGTATGTT GTTTCAGGT G chr 536445 C T ZNF34 p.K51 0.007 0.000 3.82 264. TTTGAGTGA SEQ 19 48 7 2K 35 03 E- 49[8 AGACCTTGC ID 40 0.69- CACATTCAT No: 866. TACATTTGT 530 98] AAGG[C/T]TT TTCTCCAGT ATGGATGAC CTGATGGGT AGTTAGGTT TG chr 537931 C T BIRC8 p.A15 0.000 0.000 3.71 Inf GAAGTCTGA SEQ 19 62 6T 25 00 E- [NaN- TTCAATTCAT ID 02 Inf] TTTCTGTAGT NO: GTCTTTCTGA 531 G[C/T]GCTCA CTAGATCTG CAACAAGAA CCTCAAGCG TTTTATAG chr 552392 C T KIR3D p.H17 0.009 0.000 1.52 829. GGATCACTG SEQ 19 37 L3 2H 80 01 E- 79[1 AGGACCCCT ID 52 14.0 TGCGCCTCG NO: 5- TTGGACAGC 532 6037 TCCA[C/T]GA .46] TGCGGGTTC CCAGGTCAA CTATTCCAT GGGTCCCAT GA chr 552509 C A KIR2D p.P21T 0.010 0.000 8.87 Inf ATCTTTCTTT SEQ 19 79 L3 29 00 E- CCAGGGTTC ID 55 TTCTTGCTGC NO: AGGGGGCCT 533 GG[C/A]CACA TGAGGGTGA GTCCTTCTCC AAACCTTCG GGTGTCAT chr 552848 G A KIR2D p.G36 0.005 0.002 7.72 2.26 CTAGGAGTC SEQ 19 21 L1 D 64 50 E- [1.47- CACAGAAAA ID 04 3.49] CCTTCCCTCC NO: TGGCCCACC 534 CAG[G/A]TCG CCTGGTGAA ATCAGAAGA GACAGTCAT CCTGCAGTG T chr 552867 G T KIR2D p.G17 0.007 0.002 4.86 3.64 TCCAGGGAA SEQ 19 67 L1 4V 84 17 E- [2.5- GGGGAGGCC ID 09 5.28] CATGAACGT NO: AGGCTCCCT 535 GCAG[G/T]GC CCAAGGTCA ACGGAACAT TCCAGGCTG ACTTTCCTCT G chr 552951 A G KIR2D p.T301 0.006 0.003 1.28 2.04 CTCTCCAGG SEQ 19 21 L1 T 62 25 E- [1.37- ACTCTGATG ID 03 3.04] AACAAGACC NO: CTCAGGAGG 536 TGAC[A/G]TA CACACAGTT GAATCACTG CGTTTTCAC ACAGAGAAA AA chr 553300 G A KIR3D p.V11 0.026 0.000 5.79 69.9 CCCACACTC SEQ 19 36 L1 3M 23 38 E- 5[48. CCCCACTGG ID 118 58- GTGGTCGGC NO: 100. ACCCAGCAA 537 73] CCCC[G/A]TG GTGATCATG GTCACAGGT CAGAGGCTT TCCGTCTGG GC chr 553330 C T KIR3D p.P220 0.028 0.000 9.70 1523 AGAACCTCC SEQ 19 23 L1 L 68 02 E- .42[3 CTGAGGAAA ID 164 76.4- CTGCCTCTTC NO: 6165 TCCTTCCAG 538 .8] GTC[C/T]ATA TGAGAAACC TTCTCTCTCA GCCCAGCCG GGCCCCAAG chr 554941 T G NLRP2 p.I330 0.007 0.001 8.85 4.3[2 AGGGCCCTG SEQ 19 21 S 85 80 E- .1- AGGGACCTC ID 04 8.8] CGGATCCTG NO: GCGGAGGAG 539 CCGA[T/G]CT ACATAAGGG TGGAGGGCT TCCTGGAGG AGGACAGGA GG chr 560296 A C SSC5D p.T132 0.016 0.000 1.11 Inf CCACCACTA SEQ 19 21 6T 67 00 E- CTCCTGATC ID 80 CCACCACGA NO: CCCCTCACC 540 CCAC[A/C]AC TCCTGACCC TTCCTCAAC CCCTGTCAT CACTACTGT GT chr 564163 G A NLRP1 p.A86 0.006 0.003 4.86 1.79 CTCCAGTCT SEQ 19 47 3 0V 86 84 E- [1.22- CTCTAAGGC ID 03 2.63] ACACTTGGG NO: GTGAGTCAG 541 GGCC[G/A]CA CACAATAGC TTTATGCCAT CATCTTGGA GCCGATTAA A chr 579108 T G ZNF54 p.F402 0.007 0.000 8.20 Inf TGGAGAAAG SEQ 19 59 8 V 60 00 E- GCCTTATAA ID 46 ATGCAGTGA No: ATGTGGGAA 542 ATCA[T/G]TT AGGTACCAC TGCAGGCTC ATTAGACAC CAGAGAGTC CA chr 581183 T C ZNF53 p.S499 0.005 0.000 3.59 Inf CTGGAGAAA SEQ 19 90 0 S 64 00 E- GGCCTTATG ID 34 AGTGCAGTG No: TATGTGGGA 543 AATC[T/C]TT TATCCGAAA AACCCACCT CATTCGACA CCAGACTGT TC chr 583862 T C ZNF81 p.A15 0.017 0.009 3.97 1.86 AGACAGATG SEQ 19 84 4 8A 16 32 E- [1.45- ACTCCCCTG ID 06 2.37] ACACATGCA NO: ACTTACACC 544 TCTT[T/C]GC AAACAACGC CTCCTCAAC ACTCCCTCT GTAGGGTTT CT chr 584385 C T ZNF41 p.G34 0.007 0.000 6.65 Inf GTTGATGTT SEQ 19 05 8 8G 11 00 E- GAATGAGAT ID 43 TGCCCTTCTG NO: AGTAAAACA 545 TTT[C/T]CCA CATTCTTCAC ACTCATAAG GTCTTTCTCC AGTGTGAA chr 587723 C A ZNF54 p.P117 0.005 0.002 1.59 1.93 ATCCCACCA SEQ 19 21 4 T 53 866 E- [1.11- CGTGGAAGT ID 02 3.15] GTACAGGAG No: TGGACCGGA 546 GGAG[C/A]C ACCCTCTTTG GTATTAGGA AAAGTGCAA GATCAGAGC AA chr 141821 G A TPO p.T10 0.009 0.005 3.81 1.69 TTAATTTTAG SEQ 2 0 T 31 53 E- [1.22- AATGAGAGC ID 03 2.35] GCTCGCTGT No: GCTGTCTGT 547 CAC[G/A]CTG GTTATGGCC TGCACAGAA GCCTTCTTCC CCTTCATCT chr 100450 A T TAF1B p.K27 0.005 0.000 2.18 201. TCTTTTATTT SEQ 2 15 9X 39 03 E- 64[6 CAGTCTTGG ID 29 0.33- CCTGACTAC No: 673. GAGGACATC 548 95] TAC[A/T]AAA AAACAGTAG AAGTTGGAA CATTTTTAG ATTTGCCTC G chr 117744 C T GREB p.S171 0.001 0.000 3.24 11.7 TCCAGCAAG SEQ 2 03 1 3F 47 13 E- 5[3.3 ACCCGGGCC ID 03 7- AGCGAGGTG No: 40.9 CAAGAGCCC 549 2] TTCT[C/T]CC GCTGCCACG TGCACAACT TCATCATCCT GAACGTGGA C chr 179980 C T MSGN p.G72 0.005 0.002 8.49 1.84 CTCCCTGTCC SEQ 2 01 1 G 39 93 E- [1.2- AGCTGTGGC ID 03 2.84] TGGGCTGCC No: CTGTGAGCA 550 CGG[C/T]GGG GCCAGCAGT GGGGGCAGC GAAGGCTGC AGTGTCGGT G chr 239295 C T KLHL2 p.C865 0.011 0.008 4.80 1.38 TCCTCCCCC SEQ 2 01 9 C 03 04 E- [1.01- ACATGCCCT ID 02 1.87] GCCCTGTGT No: TCAGACACG 551 GCTG[C/T]GT CGTGATAAA GAAATATAT TCAAAGCGG CTGACATCA GC chr 243023 G A TP53I3 p.R258 0.003 0.000 2.03 16.4 TTGTCCCTA SEQ 2 58 X 93 20 E- [5.5- GACCTCAGC ID 04 49.2] AAACTGGTG No: ATCAGACTT 552 CCTC[G/A]CT TAAAAAGTA GCTTTGAAA ACAGGGGCC CATTGATGT CA chr 249302 C T NCOA p.A64 0.009 0.006 3.26 1.43 AAACCAGTC SEQ 2 62 1 1A 56 69 E- [1.04- ACAAACTAG ID 02 1.98] TGCAGCTTTT No: GACAACAAC 553 TGC[C/T]GAA CAGCAGTTA CGGCATGCT GATATAGAC ACAAGCTGC A chr 264151 G A HADH p.L661 0.010 0.007 3.77 1.41 TAGCCACTC SEQ 2 98 A L 05 13 E- [1.03- AAACGGACT ID 02 1.94] TACACTTCA No: GACTTAGGA 554 GGCA[G/A]CT TCAGACTCG CTAAAATAC TATCCATGT CAGAATTCA AA chr 266633 C T DRC1 p.T331 0.005 0.003 1.29 1.91 TACAACTTG SEQ 2 49 I 856 08 E- [1.11- CAGGTGCTG ID 02 3.07] AAGAAGAGA No: GATGAAGAA 555 AGCA[C/T]AG TAATTAAAT CCCAGCAGA AGAGGAAGA TCAATCGGT AA chr 268523 C G CIB4 p.G42 0.017 0.000 2.59 Inf ACCTGGTCC SEQ 2 40 R 40 00 E- ATGGTGAGC ID 95 GTTGCCTCCT No: TGTAGTACT 556 TCC[C/G]AGG AGGGCAGAG CTTCAGGAA GGTGTCATG GATGCTGAA A chr 292460 G A FAM1 p.V53 0.005 0.003 4.86 1.55 AGGTCCTCA SEQ 2 48 79A 6V 64 66 E- ?1.01- CCGGGAAGC ID 02 2.36? TGCACGACG No: TGTGCTTGG 557 TGGT[G/A]AC TGGGGAGGT GAGGCCCCC CAGCCTGTG TGCTGTGCA TT chr 315951 C T XDH p.R607 0.005 0.003 3.21 1.61 TCACTTGAT SEQ 2 30 Q 64 51 E- [1.06- CTTGGCGTG ID 02 2.45] GGCCCGGGT No: GCTGGTGAC 558 CAGC[C/T]GG AGAGACAGC TCATTCTCGT AGCGAGGAA TGTCGTCAC A chr 322890 C T SPAST p.P34P 0.021 0.000 3.17 2161 CTCCCAGGC SEQ 2 02 81 01 E- .13[3 CTCCGCCCC ID 123 01.0 CTTGCCTGG No: 2- CCCCCGCCC 559 1551 CTCC[C/T]GC 5.36] CGCCGGGCC GGCCCCTCC GCCCGAGTC GCCGCATAA GC chr 489827 A T LHCG p.L16 0.008 0.000 3.94 29.6 GAGCGCCTC SEQ 2 64 R Q 58 29 E- 3[15. GCGCAGCGC ID 28 93- TCGTGGCAG No: 55.1 CGGCGGCTG 560 2] CAGC[A/T]GC AGCAGCAGC TTCAGCAGC TGCAGCGCC GAGAACCGC TG chr 624498 C T B3GN p.N17 0.008 0.006 3.07 1.47 GAAGGCAAG SEQ 2 65 T2 0N 82 00 E- [1.05- CAATCCGGG ID 02 2.06] AATCCTGGG No: GCCAAGAAA 561 GCAA[C/T]GC AGGGAACCA AACGGTGGT GCGAGTCTT CCTGCTGGG CC chr 743265 C T TET3 p.P115 0.019 0.000 5.92 2204 AGGTGCTCA SEQ 2 94 3P 61 01 E- .62[3 CCGCCTTCC ID 115 06.7- CCCGCGAGG No: 1584 TCCGACGCC 562 7.05] TGCC[C/T]GA GCCTGCCAA GTCCTGCCG CCAGCGGCA GCTGGAAGC CA chr 744793 G A SLC4A p.S472 0.006 0.003 7.75 1.78 CCCCGATTT SEQ 2 68 5 S 37 58 E- [1.2- CATGCATGG ID 03 2.66] CTGGCATCT No: CTCCATCAT 563 CCCC[G/A]CT GCTTGTTCC GCCGGCCCC GCCACTGCC AGCCCCGCC GC chr 747513 G C DQX1 p.T158 0.005 0.003 2.25 1.67 CCTCATCTA SEQ 2 92 T 88 53 E- [1.1- GTACCAGCA ID 02 2.52] CGCCCCAGG NO: CTCCAGTGC 564 CTCG[G/C]GT CGAGGCCAC CTCCTGCAG AAGCAGCCT GTCCCAGCA GA chr 868317 G C RNF10 p.L421 0.006 0.003 5.86 1.8[1 CTCTTCTTCT SEQ 2 51 3 V 62 69 E- .22- CAAAGTAAT ID 03 2.66] CAATTAGTA NO: AACCATGAC 565 CAA[G/C]GTA TGTACTGAG AAACAGGGC TGGGTGTGA AGAGTAAAA C chr 959456 G A PROM p.G45 0.005 0.000 8.10 571. CTATTCGTG SEQ 2 67 2 0D 64 01 E- 38[7 GTGCTCTGC ID 32 7.15- AACCTGCTG No: 4231 GGCCTCAAT 566 .98] CTGG[G/A]CA TCTGGGGCC TGTCTGCCA GGGACGACC CCAGCCACC CA chr 981282 G C ANKR p.L102 0.007 0.000 4.61 Inf GTCTTTGCCT SEQ 2 58 D36B 1L 35 00 E- GCTCTCTCTT ID 27 TGCTTCTCCA No: GTTTGGAAC 567 G[G/C]AGCGT TGTGTTTTCA TCTGTCAGA GCAGCAAGC TGTCCAC chr 981283 G A ANKR p.T100 0.017 0.000 7.10 240. ATCTGTCAG SEQ 2 13 D36B 3M 16 07 E- 02[5 AGCAGCAAG ID 60 8.84- CTGTCCACT NO: 979. ATAACAGGC 568 16] TATC[G/A]TT TTTGCTAAT GTTTCCCCAT TCCGTTTTAG AGCCTTTTG chr 996517 G A TSGA1 p.S503 0.005 0.001 1.76 3.76 TAATACAGA SEQ 2 98 0 S 21 39 E- [2.09- GTTCCCTAG ID 05 6.31] TAGAAGACA NO: AATCTGCAA 569 GAGC[G/A]G ACACTTTTTC AAACTGAAC CTTCTGAAG CTCCTCTTCC A chr 108486 G T RGPD RGPD4 0.025 0.000 1.47 67.6 ACTTTAACA SEQ 2 338 4 (NM_ 25 38 E- [34.1 GTGTTTTCTT ID 182588: 74 8- TCTTTTCTTT NO: exon19: 133. TTTTTTTTTT 570 c. 72] A[G/T]TTGCA 2606- ACTACTGGC 1G > T) CCTTCAGTA TATTATAGT CAGTCACC chr 109347 T G RANB p.L96 0.014 0.000 1.94 Inf ATTAGCGTT SEQ 2 813 P2 L 95 00 E- CAGTGGAAT ID 89 TAAACCCAA No: CACAAAAAG 571 ATCT[T/G]GT GTTGAAGAT TGCAGAATT GCTTTGTAA AAATGATGT TA chr 112922 C G FBLN7 p.P87 0.007 0.004 7.23 1.73 TCCATCTCTC SEQ 2 601 A 35 26 E- [1.19- CTTACAGTTT ID 03 2.51] CCTGCCCGG NO: CTCTGAACA 572 CC[C/G]CCGC AGACGGCAG AAAGTTTGG AAGCAAGTA CTTAGTGGA chr 113940 G A PSD4 p.A52 0.022 0.000 6.94 2577 CCATGAGGA SEQ 2 187 T 55 01 E- .18[3 TCCACCGGA ID 133 59.1- GCCTTTCGA NO: 1849 GGAGCAAAC 573 5.63] CTGG[G/A]CC ACTGACCCT CCTGAACCT ACCAGACAA AATGTTCCT CC chr 114500 C T SLC35 p.E224 0.009 0.006 4.53 1.43 GCAGTAAGT SEQ 2 349 F5 K 07 35 E- [1.03- TTCCCCACA ID 02 1.99] GTTTTCAGT NO: ATGGATTCT 574 TGTT[C/T]TT TCACAGGAT ATGACATGC GAGACAACT TTGCTTCCA AT chr 132238 T C TUBA3 p.A27 0.007 0.004 2.79 1.55 TCCACTTCCC SEQ 2 100 D 8A 35 75 E- [1.07- CCTGGCCAC ID 02 2.25] CTATGCCCC NO: AGTCATCTC 575 AGC[T/C]GAG AAGGCCTAC CACGAGCAG CTGTCTGTG GCCGAGATC A chr 136418 A G R3HD p.H59 0.005 0.002 1.00 2.18 TTATGATCCT SEQ 2 868 M1 6R 64 60 E- [1.42- AGATGCCAG ID 03 3.33] CCTGTTATTG No: CGCTCCAGG 576 CC[A/G]CTAT CACTCCAGC CAACCTCAG TATCGCCCA GTCCCTTCT chr 141232 C T LRP1B p.A31 0.007 0.011 2.07 0.67 GCCCAGTAG SEQ 2 800 78T 84 71 E- [0.47- AGTCTACGA ID 02 0.95] TTAACATAA No: TCTATTGTTA 577 GTG[C/T]CAT AGGTCTAGA AATCTTGGT TTCTATGAC AACACTCTG A chr 152982 T C STAM2 p.M39 0.006 0.003 9.98 1.73 ATAATTTAG SEQ 2 745 2V 62 83 E- [1.17- AAAATGTTC ID 03 2.56] TCAAAAAAC No: ATGCTCACC 578 TGCA[T/C]TG GAACCCCAG ATGATGCAG GTGGGTAAT GTGCTGGAG GG chr 165984 C T SCN3A p.V10 0.012 0.007 7.31 1.71 GGGTTGTTT SEQ 2 284 841 25 22 E- [1.28- ATGAATGAC ID 04 2.27] ATATAATCA No: TTTTCATCGA 579 TTA[C/T]GTA TTTTTCAACA CTGCTTCCA GTACCTACA CCACTGGTG chr 171070 G A MYO3 p.G13 0.005 0.003 4.93 1.68 CCAGCGGTT SEQ 2 982 B 9R 205 108 E- [0.95- GGATGAAGC ID 02 2.77] AATGATCTC No: ATACATCTT 580 GTAC[G/A]GG GCCCTCTTG GTAAGAACA TCTATCAAA TGGGGTATG AC chr 178096 G A NFE2L p.L286 0.005 0.003 6.39 1.86 AGATCAGAA SEQ 2 406 2 F 64 04 E- [1.22- ACATCAATG ID 03 2.84] GGCCCATTT No: AGAAGTTCA 581 GAGA[G/A]T GAATGGCTT AAAGTAGCA GGTGAGGGC ATGCTGTTG CTG chr 186661 A G FSIP2 p.R333 0.006 0.003 1.12 1.72 ATCGTGTTCT SEQ 2 602 6G 86 99 E- [1.16- ACTAGAAAC ID 02 2.56] AAAGTACAA NO: GACCACAGA 582 CCA[A/G]GG GAATCTAAC TTTGGTAGTT TTGATCAGA CCATGAAAG G chr 186678 A T FSIP2 p.K68 0.025 0.000 3.65 Inf TTTCTCCTAA SEQ 2 577 00N 49 00 E- GTCAACACT ID 151 AAGCACGAG NO: CAGCCTGAA 583 AAA[A/T]TTT TTGTCACTA AGTAAATGT TGTCAGACC ACAGCCAGT G chr 187605 G A FAM1 p.R95 0.007 0.004 2.40 1.58 GTATTTATGT SEQ 2 000 71B H 11 51 E- [1.09- TGAAAGTCC ID 02 2.3] AGGTGAATG NO: ACATCATCA 584 GTC[G/A]TCA GTACCTGAG CCAAGCAGT TGTAGAAGT GTTTGTAAA C chr 209302 G A PTH2R p.S82S 0.006 0.000 1.50 743. GACTCATTT SEQ 2 329 62 01 E- 52[1 GTTGGCCCA ID 38 01.0 GAGGAACAG No: 1- TGGGGAAAA 585 5472 TATC[G/A]GC .96] TGTTCCATG CCCTCCTTAT ATTTATGAC TTCAACCAT A chr 211068 C A ACAD p.R311 0.007 4.63 0.002 3.5[2 AACTGTTTT SEQ 2 107 L M 11 04 E- .37- GCCAAAAGC ID 08 5.16] TTTTCTTTGT NO: TTAACATAG 586 TTC[C/A]TGG TTTCTTCAAA CATGAATTC ACTAGCTGA AATTGCCAC chr 216285 C T FN1 p.V52 0.001 not 4.03 Inf ATGTGCCCC SEQ 2 492 7M 47 found E- TCTTCATGA ID 06 CGCTTGTGG NO: AATGTGTCG 587 TTCA[C/T]AT TGTAAGTGA TGTCATCAA CAATGCACT GATCTGTTT AG chr 233246 A G ALPP p.E451 0.006 0.004 8.56 1.71 AGCCCCGAG SEQ 2 249 G 86 01 E- [1.17- TATCGGCAG ID 03 2.52] CAGTCAGCA NO: GTGCCCCTG 588 GACG[A/G]A GAGACCCAC GCAGGCGAG GACGTGGCG GTGTTCGCG CGC chr 233498 C G EFHD p.P34 0.010 0.000 2.59 Inf GAGAGTGGC SEQ 2 515 1 R 05 00 E- CCCCAGCTG ID 36 GCTCCCCTC NO: GGCGCCCCA 589 GCCC[C/G]GG AGCCCAAGC CCGAGCCCG AGCCTCCCG CCCGTGCGC CC chr 234229 C T SAG p.T125 0.005 0.003 1.25 1.78 CTTAAAAAG SEQ 2 468 M 88 32 E- [1.17- CTGGGGAGC ID 02 2.7] AACACGTAC NO: CCCTTTCTCC 590 TGA[C/T]GGT GGGTGACTC CTCCGGCCA GCCCTGCTT CCTTCACCC G chr 237029 C T AGAP p.C711 0.025 0.000 9.57 943. TGCTGGCAC SEQ 2 013 1 C 25 03 E- 45[2 ACGGCTCCC ID 145 99.2 GGGACGAGG NO: 2- TGAACGAGA 591 2974 CCTG[C/T]GG .8] GGAGGGAGA CGGCCGCAC GGCGCTGCA TCTGGCCTG CC chr 238973 A G SCLY p.K60 0.002 0.000 5.74 4.37 AACGACTCC SEQ 2 062 E 94 67 E- [2.37- CCTGGAGCC ID 05 8.05] AGAAGTTAT NO: CCAGGCCAT 592 GACC[A/G]A GGCCATGTG GGAAGCCTG GGGAAATCC CAGCAGCCC GTA chr 240982 G A PRR21 p.R53 0.021 0.000 1.26 480. GGGTGAAGA SEQ 2 243 W 32 05 E- 79[1 GCCGTGGAT ID 112 76.3 GAAGGGCCG NO: 8- TGGGTGAAG 593 1310 AGCC[G/A]TG .53] GATGAAGGG CCATGGGTG AAGAGCCGT GGATGAAGG GC chr 242154 G A ANO7 NM_ 0.005 0.000 3.42 7.1[3 GCAAGCAGG SEQ 2 318 001001891: 89 80 E- - TCATCAACA ID exon18: 04 16.5] ACATGCAGG NO: c AGGTCCTCA 594 .1988 + TCCC[G/A]TG 1G > A AGTCCCCCA CTCCTCCCTG GGTGGCATC CAAGGACCG A chr 242207 T A HDLB p.T14S 0.009 0.006 4.29 1.43 ACCACACAC SEQ 2 024 P 07 34 E- [1.02- CTCTTAATG ID 02 2.02] CTTACAAAA NO: TGCATCATG 595 ACAG[T/A]TG CTACAAAAA GCCAGCGGT CTCTCTCTGC AAGGTGCAT C chr 242312 C T FARP2 p.H45 0.008 0.006 4.12 1.45 TGGGCAGAC SEQ 2 655 Y 82 12 E- [1.03- TCTCTTGCCC ID 02 2.03] AGAATGCAA NO: GAGAAGCAC 596 CTG[C/T]ACC TCAGAGTAA AGCTGCTGG ACAACACCA TGGAAATAT T chr 314753 G A LZTS3 p.L93 0.009 0.006 1.14 1.55 CACTGCCCC SEQ 20 1 L 56 19 E- [1.12- GCAGCTCAC ID 02 2.14] CATTGAGGT NO: AGAGGGAGT 597 TGGC[G/A]AG ACCCTTGTC CTCTGAGGG GTAGCGGCC CGGCCTCTC CC chr 468011 T C PRNP p.S55P 0.005 0.000 1.14 314. GTGGCTGGG SEQ 20 8 64 02 E- 81[7 GGCAGCCCC ID 31 4.2- ATGGTGGTG NO: 1335 GCTGGGGAC 598 .71] AGCC[T/C]CA TGGTGGTGG CTGGGGTCA AGGAGGTGG CACCCACAG TC chr 317569 C T BPIFA p.G12 0.005 0.002 9.96 1.86 AAAAGATGC SEQ 20 87 2 G 15 77 E- [1.2- TTCAGCTTTG ID 03 2.9] GAAACTTGT NO: TCTCCTGTGC 599 GG[C/T]GTGC TCACTGGGA CCTCAGAGT CTCTTCTTGA CAATCTTG chr 340785 G A CEP25 p.E881 0.010 0.007 4.80 1.37 CTGGCACCA SEQ 20 17 0 K 78 88 E- [1.01- GCAGGAGCT ID 02 1.86] GGCAAAGGC No: TCTGGAGAG 600 CTTA[G/A]AA AGGGAAAAA ATGGAGCTG GAAATGAGG CTAAAGGAG CA chr 341303 T C ERGIC p.F76F 0.007 0.000 3.01 79.9 CGCGGGGAG SEQ 20 30 3 11 09 E- 3[38. ATAAACTGA ID 34 93- AGATCAACA No: 164. TCGATGTAC 601 12] TTTT[T/C]CC GCACATGCC TTGTGCCTGT GAGTACCTC ACCATGGGT G chr 462798 G A NCOA p.Q12 0.011 0.000 5.51 Inf GGGTGGCTA SEQ 20 39 3 55Q 27 00 E- TGATGATGC ID 65 AGCAGCAGC No: AGCAGCAGC 602 AACA[G/A]C AGCAGCAGC AGCAGCAGC AGCAGCAAC AGCAACAGC AAC chr 485033 G A SLC9A p.S519 0.009 0.006 3.58 1.44 GGCCGCCTT SEQ 20 06 8 S 07 33 E- [1.03- TCCTCCCTGC ID 02 2] TCAGGGCAA No: CACTGTGGA 603 GTC[G/A]GAG CACCTGTCG GAGCTCACG GAGGAGGAG TACGAGGCC C chr 491978 G A PTPN1 p.G30 0.005 0.002 6.45 2.14 CACTGAAGT SEQ 20 54 8S 541 6 E- [1.23- TAGAAGTCG ID 03 3.49] GGTCGTGGG No: GGGAAGTCT 604 TCGA[G/A]GT GCCCAGGCT GCCTCCCCA GCCAAAGGG GAGCCGTCA CT chr 609019 C T LAMA p.V17 0.011 0.007 2.52 1.43 ACCCTGCCA SEQ 20 32 5 35M 27 93 E- [1.06- CATCATCTC ID 02 1.92] AGCTCCCTC No: ACCTGCAGC 605 ACCA[C/T]AT CCGGCCTGC TCTCCATGG GGACAAAGA CATCTCCCC GC chr 612963 C A SLCO4 p.G40 0.011 0.008 4.76 1.35 TCTGCCTGG SEQ 20 67 A1 1G 52 55 E- [1.01- CCGGGGCCA ID 02 1.81] CCGAGGCCA No: CTCTCATCA 606 CCGG[C/A]AT GTCCACGTT CAGCCCCAA GTTCTTGGA GTCCCAGTT CA chr 622005 C T HELZ2 p.S334 0.005 0.003 3.47 1.63 GGTGCATCC SEQ 20 87 S 15 16 E- [1.05- TCTGCCGAT ID 02 2.54] AGTTGGTTG No: GTGAGATGG 607 GGCC[C/T]GA GGCCACGCT GCTGCGGTT GAACTCCAG GGCCAGGGC AG chr 109429 T G TPTE p.Q17 0.005 0.000 9.09 14.4 ACTTACCCG SEQ 21 55 3P 88 41 E- 3[8.7 CCTTCTTATC ID 18 8- AGCTTTTCA No: 23.7] AGTTGTCTTT 608 TT[T/G]GATG AAACAGATG AAAAATTCT TAACAGAAT AATAAGTCG chr 109429 C A TPTE p.L164 0.012 0.000 1.16 16.3 CAAGTTGTC SEQ 21 81 L 75 79 E- 9[11. TTTTTTGATG ID 38 59- AAACAGATG No: 23.1 AAAAATTCT 609 7] TAA[C/A]AGA ATAATAAGT CGTAGAAGT CGAAGTAAA TGTGTCCAT C chr 149827 A G POTE p.R58 0.022 0.000 8.43 216. CACTTCTGG SEQ 21 21 D G 79 11 E- 23[5 AGACCACGA ID 67 3.26- CGACTCCTTT No: 877. ATGAAGATG 610 86] CTC[A/G]GGA GCAAGATGG GCAAGTGTT GCCGCCACT GCTTCCCCT G chr 349274 C G SON p.R196 0.008 0.000 2.93 Inf GCATTTCCC SEQ 21 26 3R 33 00 E- CAAGCCGCC ID 36 GCAGCCGCA No: CCCCCAGCC 611 GCCG[C/G]AG CCGCACCCC CAGCCGCCG CAGCCGCAC CCCCAGCCG CC chr 427708 G A ALV2 p.G40 0.010 0.006 1.46 1.51 GGAGAGCCA SEQ 21 96 8R 05 66 E- [1.1- CCAGAAGGC ID 02 2.08] GACCGAGGA NO: GCTGCGGCG 612 TTGC[G/A]GG GCTGACATC CCCAGCCAG GAGGCCGAC AAGATGTTC TT chr 434126 G C ZBTB2 p.A52 0.007 0.005 3.45 1.49 ACCAAATTC SEQ 21 40 1 2G 60 10 E- [1.04- GTCTTTATTC ID 02 2.15] AAATCAGAA NO: TCTGGAAAA 613 TCT[G/C]CAT CAAGGAGAG TAGGGCTTG AGCCTTCCT CAAAATTAT C chr 456707 G A DNMT p.S276 0.024 0.000 1.25 2810 GCACCAGAT SEQ 21 74 3L S 75 01 E- .21[3 TGTCCACGA ID 145 91.9 ACATCCAGA No: 4- AGAAGGGCC 614 2014 TGGG[G/A]CT 9] GCCTGGCTT GGGCCGTGC GTACTGCAG GAGCCGGTG GA chr 457866 G A TRPM p.V15 0.008 0.005 3.32 1.49 CCCGCAGTA SEQ 21 70 2 3M 33 61 E- [1.05- CGTCCGAGT ID 02 2.11] CTCCCAGGA NO: CACGCCCTC 615 CAGC[G/A]TG ATCTACCAC CTCATGACC CAGCACTGG GGGCTGGAC GT chr 459947 T C KRTA p.P378 0.011 0.000 1.15 1313 GCCGCCCCG SEQ 21 69 P10-4 P 76 01 E- .63[1 TGTGCAGGC ID 68 81.2 CCGCCTGCT NO: 8- GCGTGCCCG 616 9519 TCCC[T/C]TC .28] CTGCTGTGC TCCCACCTC CTCCTGCCA ACCCAGCTG CT chr 459998 T A KRTA p.T197 0.008 0.000 4.27 Inf CAGCAAGCC SEQ 21 67 P10-5 S 82 00 E- GGCTGACAG ID 53 CTAGACTGC NO: TGGCAGCAT 617 GAAG[T/A]G GAAGCCCCA GAGCAGACG GGCACACAG CAGATGGGT TTG chr 460000 G A KRTA p.P138 0.026 0.000 3.02 Inf ATGAAGAGG SEQ 21 42 P10-5 P 47 00 E- AATCCTCAG ID 158 AACAGGTGG NO: GCACACAGC 618 ACAC[G/A]G GCTTGCAGC AGACAGGCA CACAGCAGG ACTGCTGGC AGG chr 460206 C T KRTA p.C42 0.012 0.001 7.61 10.2 CCGACTCCT SEQ 21 47 P10-7 C 75 26 E- 4[7.4 GGCAGGTGG ID 31 3- ACGACTGCC NO: 14.1 CAGAGAGCT 619 2] GCTG[C/T]GA GCCCCCCTG CTGCGCCCC CAGCTGCTG CGCCCCGGC CC chr 460324 T C KRTA p.S153 0.014 0.000 3.77 Inf TGGAGCTTC SEQ 21 74 P10-8 P 22 00 E- CTCCCCATG ID 85 CTGCCAGCA NO: GTCTAGCTG 620 CCAG[T/C]CA GCTTGCTGC ACCTTCTCCC CATGCCAAC AGGCCTGCT G chr 461174 T C KRTA p.S98P 0.017 0.000 3.00 1974 CTGCCAGCA SEQ 21 08 P10-12 40 01 E- .74[2 GTCTAGCTG ID 102 74.3- CCAGCCGGC NO: 1421 TTGCTGCAC 621 6.51] CTCC[T/C]CC CCCTGCCAG CAGGCCTGC TGCGTGCCC GTCTGCTGC AA chr 461914 G A UBE2 p.P60P 0.008 0.005 3.46 1.47 ACATTTTGG SEQ 21 00 G2 33 68 E- [1.04- ACGCATCCA ID 02 2.08] CGTTAGCTC NO: CACTTTCGTC 622 ATT[G/A]GGC TCTGAAAGA AAAGGGAAC ACCCTCCAT GTAAAAGGG A chr 465964 G A ADAR p.K28 0.008 0.005 2.59 1.5[1 TCGTGGATG SEQ 21 59 B1 1K 33 59 E- .06- GTCAGTTCTT ID 02 2.12] TGAAGGCTC NO: GGGGAGAAA 623 CAA[G/A]AA GCTTGCCAA GGCCCGGGC TGCGCAGTC TGCCCTGGC CG chr 185627 T C PEX26 p.Y10 0.005 0.002 2.61 1.82 AATGGATCG SEQ 22 34 9H 21 87 E- [1.03- GTGGCAAGA ID 02 3.01] AGTCCTCTC NO: CTGGGTCCT 624 TCAG[T/C]AT TACCAGGTC CCTGAAAAG CTACCCCCC AAAGTCCTG GA chr 240867 G A ZNF70 p.C198 0.013 0.000 4.80 1525 TGAGGGCTG SEQ 22 34 C 48 01 E- .31[2 AGCTCTGGC ID 79 11.0 GGAAGGCCT NO: 3- TCCCACACT 625 1102 CCCG[G/A]CA 4.83] CTCGTAGGG CTTCTCCCCG GTGTGGATG ATCTGGTGC C chr 250071 G A GGT1 p.A42 0.008 0.002 5.51 3.34 AGCCTCCAA SEQ 22 72 T 82 66 E- [2.34- GGAACCTGA ID 09 4.76] CAACCATGT NO: GTACACCAG 626 GGCT[G/A]CC GTGGCCGCG GATGCCAAG CAGTGCTCG AAGATTGGG AG chr 250072 A G GGT1 p.K52 0.008 0.002 2.23 3.52 CACCAGGGC SEQ 22 02 E 82 52 E- [2.45- TGCCGTGGC ID 09 5.05] CGCGGATGC NO: CAAGCAGTG 627 CTCG[A/G]AG ATTGGGAGG TGAGCAGGG CAGGGCATG GGACATGGG CC chr 268799 A G SRRD p.R37 0.007 0.000 1.96 Inf CTCGACGGC SEQ 22 67 R 11 00 E- CGCGGCGGA ID 08 GGGAGGCGG NO: CGCCCCGGG 628 GGAG[A/G]G AGGCGGCGC CCCGGGGGA GAGAGGCGG CGCCCCGGG GCC chr 299132 C T THOC p.V52 0.010 0.007 4.97 1.38 ACTCCTTCA SEQ 22 78 5 3M 05 28 E- [1.01- CCTACCATG ID 02 1.9] TAATCCTCA NO: TGGGCAACT 629 GTCA[C/T]CC ATTTCACCA GGCGAGAGA CAACCTTGG CAGGGAAGA GG chr 325904 C T RFPL2 p.R50 0.005 0.003 3.92 1.56 GGGCCTTTT SEQ 22 48 H 88 78 E- [1.03- ATTGGTGAG ID 02 2.35] ATTCCCACC No: TCCCACTGG 630 GTCA[C/T]GC CCTTCCACA CCCTCTAAC CTGATGAGG CTTTGATTTA A chr 325904 G A RFPL2 p.I42I 0.005 0.003 3.59 1.96 CACCTCCCA SEQ 22 71 88 01 E- [1.29- CTGGGTCAC ID 03 2.97] GCCCTTCCA No: CACCCTCTA 631 ACCT[G/A]AT GAGGCTTTG ATTTAATTAT AACAGGGAA TTAGGTTTTT chr 381203 C G TRIOB p.T599 0.008 0.000 4.23 966. AGAGCCTCC SEQ 22 59 P R 58 01 E- 49[1 TCTCCCAAT ID 50 32.3 AGAGCTACA No: 8- CGAGACAAC 632 7056 CCCA[C/G]AA .38] CATCCTGTG CCCAGCGGG ACAATCCCA GAGCCTCCA GA chr 381208 C T TRIOB p.P754 0.021 0.000 3.86 2405 CGAGACAAC SEQ 22 24 P L 08 01 E- .39[3 CCCAGAACA ID 124 34.9 TCCTGTGCC No: 2- CAGCGGGAC 633 1727 AATC[C/T]CA 5.56] GAGCCTCCT CTCCTAACA GAACCATCC AACAAGAGA AC chr 381224 G T TRIOB p.G12 0.026 0.000 4.02 Inf GGCCCAGAG SEQ 22 49 P 96W 23 00 E- ACAGCCAGG ID 141 GCCCCAGGC No: GCAGTGCAG 634 CAGC[G/T]GG GGCCGCACC CACAGCCCT GGCCGTGCA GAGGTGGAG CG chr 425646 G A TCF20 p.S195 0.015 0.000 1.36 Inf ACTGCCCCC SEQ 22 89 1S 44 00 E- CTCACCCCC ID 91 GCTCCGACT No: GCTCTGTGC 635 TGAG[G/A]CT GCCTTTCGC GGTCTTGTTC TGCAAGGGG GGGAGAGGG C chr 466578 T C PKDR p.R447 0.006 0.002 2.21 2.21 ATGTGTGCT SEQ 22 81 EJ G 51 96 E- [1.33- ATGGCTTTT ID 03 3.47] GGTCCTTGG No: AGCACGTGG 636 ACCC[T/C]CT TATCAGAAA ACGCTGTCC TAGAGTCCT TCCGAATCA CC chr 503153 C A CREL p.D18 0.035 0.027 4.33 1.29 ACATGGGGT SEQ 22 63 D2 2E 54 77 E- [1.09- ACCAGGGCC ID 03 1.53] CGCTGTGCA No: CTGACTGCA 637 TGGA[C/A]GG CTACTTCAG CTCGCTCCG GAACGAGAC CCACAGCAT CT chr 507212 T C PLXN p.M95 0.009 0.006 2.76 1.47 TTGGGCACG SEQ 22 52 B2 9V 31 34 E- [1.06- GGGGACCCC ID 02 2.04] CCGTAGGAG No: ACCTCCAGA 638 AGCA[T/C]CT GGCCCCGTG TCGCCTGGG GGCCAGTGA CACACTGGA GC chr 126965 G A CNTN p.K11 0.007 0.005 1.83 1.57 GCCTGGCCA SEQ 3 8 6 3K 84 02 E- [1.1- CCAATCTTCT ID 02 2.24] GGGGACAAT No: TCTGAGTCG 639 GAA[G/A]GC AAAGCTCCA ATTTGCATG TGAGTTTGG GGTAAATTT TG chr 109768 C T SLC6A p.C564 0.005 0.003 3.50 1.63 ATGGCATTG SEQ 3 31 11 C 15 17 E- [1.05- GCTGGCTCA ID 02 2.53] TGGCCCTGT No: CCTCCATGC 640 TCTG[C/T]AT CCCGCTCTG GATCTGCAT CACAGTGTG GAAGACGGA GG chr 147246 C T C3orf2 p.L26 0.009 0.006 5.92 1.61 ACAGGTTTC SEQ 3 64 0 L 80 11 E- [1.17- AGCAGCAGT ID 03 2.22] CCATCCACC No: TGCTGACGG 641 AGCT[C/T]CT CAGACTGAA GATGAAGGC CATGGTGGA GTCTATGTC GG chr 324094 C T CMTM p.A12 0.008 0.005 1.57 1.54 TGTGCTTTA SEQ 3 08 8 2A 82 74 E- [1.1- ACGGCAGTG ID 02 2.16] CCTTCGTCTT No: GTACCTCTCT 642 GC[C/T]GCTG TTGTAGATG CATCTTCCGT CTCCCCTGA GAGGGACA chr 367800 C T DCLK p.R24 0.012 0.009 4.43 1.36 TGGAGAAGG SEQ 3 80 3 Q 50 21 E- [1.02- GGCACGGCT ID 02 1.81] GTGCTGGGC No: CAGTGTCAG 643 GGCC[C/T]GG GCTTTGTTG GGGTACAGT TCTTCTACA GCCACCTGA AT chr 383476 C T SLC22 p.L55F 0.009 0.006 3.16 1.44 GAGGGCTGT SEQ 3 80 A14 56 64 E- [1.04- CCACACCAA ID 02 1.99] GCAGGATGA No: CAAGTTTGC 644 CAAC[C/T]TC CTGGATGCG GTGGGGGAG TTTGGCACA TTCCAGCAG AG chr 386718 G A SCN5A p.H11 0.005 0.002 2.12 2.01 ATGAGTGAA SEQ 3 40 8H 88 94 E- [1.33- CCAGAATCT ID 03 3.05] TCACAGCCG No: CTCTCCGGA 645 TGGG[G/A]TG GAAGGGACT GAGGACATA CAAGGCGTT GGTGGCACT GA chr 419493 G A ULK4 p.P391 0.008 0.005 2.71 1.5[1 TAGGAAGAA SEQ 3 48 S 58 74 E- .06- AATTTCCCA ID 02 2.11] AGTCTGCTC No: ACCTTGGTC 646 AGAG[G/A]A GAAGTCTTC TGTGGTGAA CAGTGAGTC ATATCCTCA CCA chr 427750 G A CCDC p.R471 0.007 0.000 8.25 88.7 CTGGGTCCT SEQ 3 60 13 R 11 08 E- 2[41. CCAGGAACT ID 35 97- GGGTATAGG No: 187. CAGGGCTGA 647 53] CCTC[G/A]CG GCCACTGGA CCCCTCACC CACTCCTTTA TTCCGAAGA T chr 455420 C T LARS2 p.A56 0.006 0.003 1.03 2.02 GGATGCCTG SEQ 3 03 4A 86 41 E- [1.38- TGGATTTGT ID 03 2.97] ACATTGGAG No: GGAAAGAAC 648 ATGC[C/T]GT CATGCACTT GTTCTATGC AAGATTCTT TAGTCATTTT T chr 460629 G A XCR1 p.S173 0.009 0.005 1.02 1.57 GGAGGTGAG SEQ 3 22 L 31 97 E- [1.13- GTACCACGT ID 02 2.17] GAGTTCGGA NO: ATAATCACA 649 GCCC[G/A]AA GAAAGCACC TTGTGGAAG ATGGTGTCG AGGATGGAG GA chr 464969 G A LTF p.A17 0.007 0.004 2.66 1.55 GGTTGGGGA SEQ 3 10 4A 11 61 E- [1.06- ACTGTCCTTT ID 02 2.25] ATCTGCACC NO: GGGAACACA 650 GCT[G/A]GCT GAGAAGAAC CTGGCCACA GCTGTTAAA CACAGAGAA G chr 495691 G A DAG1 p.V41 0.006 0.002 7.27 2.16 CTGGCCAGA SEQ 3 77 1V 37 96 E- [1.45- TTCGCCCAA ID 04 3.22] CGATGACCA NO: TTCCTGGCT 651 ATGT[G/A]GA GCCTACTGC AGTTGCTAC CCCTCCCAC AACCACCAC CA chr 497288 A G RNF12 p.E32 0.009 0.006 2.22 1.49 CTTTTCTCCC SEQ 3 70 3 G 56 43 E- [1.08- TTCTGACTTG ID 02 2.06] TGGCTCAGG NO: CATTGTGCA 652 GG[A/G]GAA GCTGCTGAA TGACTACCT GAACCGCAT CTTTTCCTCT chr 503345 C T NAT6 p.V14 0.008 0.005 2.17 1.53 TGGTTCAGC SEQ 3 40 1I 09 29 E- [1.07- ACCCGTGAC ID 02 2.18] AGGCGGGCA NO: TGGCCCACC 653 ACAA[C/T]GG GTGCTGCTT CAAGTGTGG GGTGGGGGC TTAGCAGCA TC chr 520056 G A ABHD p.R8C 0.007 0.005 4.86 1.45 AAGAAGAGG SEQ 3 65 14B 60 26 E- [1.01- GCCTGGCCC ID 02 2.08] TGCACCTGG No: ATGGTGCCC 654 TCGC[G/A]CT GCTCCACGC TTGCTGCCA TGCCTGCTG CTGCTGTGC TG chr 525408 C T STAB1 p.S655 0.006 0.004 2.53 1.61 TGCCCCCGA SEQ 3 42 S 62 12 E- [1.09- CCATCCTGC ID 02 2.38] CCATCCTGC No: CCAAGCACT 655 GCAG[C/T]GA GGAGCAGCA CAAGATTGT GGCGGTGAG CCTCGCCTG CA chr 757862 A G ZNF71 p.S855 0.005 0.000 1.25 89.9 TTTTCTCCTG SEQ 3 11 7 P 15 06 E- 2[12. TGTGTGTTCT ID 14 09- CTGATGTAT No: 668. ACTGAGGCC 656 7] TG[A/G]CTTC TGGGAGAAA GTTTTCCTAC ATTCATTAC ATCTAAAG chr 757869 C A ZNF71 p.R611 0.008 0.000 1.48 Inf ACATTCATT SEQ 3 42 7 I 58 00 E- ACATTCATA ID 41 GGGTCTTTC No: CCCTGTGTG 657 AGTT[C/A]TC TTGTGTATCC CAAGGTTTA ACTTATTGA TAAAGGTTT T chr 757872 G T ZNF71 p.P506 0.011 0.000 9.28 Inf TTACAGCGA SEQ 3 58 7 T 52 00 E- AAGGTTTTC ID 35 CCACATTCA No: TTGCATTCGT 658 AGG[G/T]TTT TTCCCCTGTG TGAGTCCAT TGATGGATA GTGAGGAAT chr 757875 G C ZNF71 p.L410 0.027 0.000 3.86 Inf TAGGGCTTT SEQ 3 46 7 V 45 00 E- TCCCCTGTGT ID 62 GAGTTCTAT No: GATGTATTG 659 TGA[G/C]GTA TGACTTCTG GCTAAAGGT TTTTCCACAT TCACTACAC chr 757881 G C ZNF71 p.L206 0.007 0.000 3.87 Inf TTGAAGGTT SEQ 3 58 7 V 35 00 E- TTCCCTTGTT ID 34 CATTACATT No: GAAAAGTCT 660 GCA[G/C]CAG AGTTTGAAT CTTGTGATG CTGAGTAAG ATGTTCATG A chr 757882 T A ZNF71 p.D16 0.006 0.000 7.04 14.7 TGTCTCCCC SEQ 3 92 7 1V 13 42 E- 5[6.0 AGGCTTAAT ID 12 4- AGGGAAAAG No: 35.9 CATGTTCTG 661 7] GCAA[T/A]CA TTAAACTGC CCAGGCTTC ATTCCTGAA CTGTTTCCAT T chr 999985 G C p.C31 TBC1 0.008 0.005 4.33 1.45 AGGGAAAAA SEQ 3 31 D23 S 09 59 E- [1.02- GATCTTGAA ID 02 2.06] GAAGCTCTG No: GAAGCAGGA 662 GGTT[G/C]TG ATCTTGAAA CGTTGAGAA ATATAATTC AAGGAAGAC CG chr 113052 G C WDR5 p.P118 0.006 0.004 4.42 1.5[1 TTCCTCTTCC SEQ 3 314 2 5R 86 57 E- .02- TTCTTGGCA ID 02 2.23] GCATTTATTC No: TCATGTGCT 663 CA[G/C]GTAT CTTGTAGTCT GGGGCTGTC TTCAGATTG AAATCTCC chr 124578 C G ITGB5 p.E80 0.009 0.006 3.42 1.45 GGCAGGCTC SEQ 3 212 Q 07 25 E- [1.04- CTCAGGACA ID 02 2.03] TGGAAGCTG No: CTGGCTGGG 664 CTCT[C/G]TA TCTCACCTCC ACAGCCATT TTTGACAAG GTTTGCCCTC chr 124646 G A MUC1 p.T66I 0.006 0.004 3.25 1.59 GGAGGAACT SEQ 3 693 3 37 03 E- [1.07- ATGTGTACT ID 02 2.36] AATTATGGG No: GGGAGCAGG 665 TGAA[G/A]TA GCTGTTGGG AAAGGTGTA TTTGCTGTG GTGCTAGCA GT chr 129196 C T IFT122 p.R366 0.008 0.005 3.60 1.46 CTATGAGTT SEQ 3 984 W 33 73 E- [1.03- GTATTCAGA ID 02 2.06] GGACTTATC No: AGACATGCA 666 TTAC[C/T]GG GTAAAGGAG AAGATTATC AAGAAGTTT GAGTGCAAC CT chr 132198 G A DNAJ p.R912 0.006 0.003 1.75 1.68 ATTTATTTCA SEQ 3 097 C13 R 13 65 E- [1.12- ATAGTGCAC ID 02 2.53] AGATAAACT No: TGAACGAGA 667 TAG[G/A]TTG ATTCTCTTCC TTAACAAGT TGATCCTTA ATAAGGTAC chr 132247 T G DNAJ p.L217 0.006 0.004 1.27 1.68 GCTCAGATT SEQ 3 160 C13 0W 86 09 E- [1.15- GTTAAAGCT ID 02 2.47] CTCAAGGCA No: ATGACTCGA 668 AGTT[T/G]GC AGTATGGAG AACAGGTGA GTCTGCATA GAGTCAACT TT chr 136664 A T NCK1 p.S139 0.011 0.008 4.08 1.38 AAGTGTTGC SEQ 3 807 S 03 02 E- [1.02- ATGTGGTAC ID 02 1.86] AGGCTCTTT No: ACCCATTCA 669 GCTC[A/T]TC TAATGATGA AGAACTTAA TTTCGAGAA AGGAGATGT AA chr 137849 G T A4GN p.P97P 0.008 0.005 2.16 1.52 TTGCTGACA SEQ 3 808 T 82 83 E- [1.08- GGAAGGAAA ID 02 2.13] AAGCTGGGT No: ATGTGGAGT 670 TTGA[G/T]GG CATCGGTGT GGAATCAGT AAGACCCTT CATAAAGAA CA chr 186953 C T MASP p.P582 0.009 0.005 1.70 1.54 AGATGCCCC SEQ 3 913 1 P 07 90 E- [1.11- AGCCGGCCA ID 02 2.15] CCAGGCCCA No: GCATGTGGG 671 GGGC[C/T]GG GCCTTCAGG CTCAAGCCT TGGCAGGCA GACAGGCAT AA chr 192980 C T HRASL p.S160 0.008 0.005 7.49 1.64 AATTCTACTT SEQ 3 784 S S 33 09 E- [1.16- TATAGATGG ID 03 2.33] CATTCCTGC NO: GTCCTTTAC 672 AAG[C/T]GCC AAGTCTGTA TTCAGCAGT AAGGCCCTG GTGAAAATG C chr 195306 A G APOD p.F15S 0.009 0.005 9.46 1.59 GCACTTCCC SEQ 3 289 31 89 E- [1.14- AAGATGAAA ID 03 2.2] TGCTTGTCCC NO: TCTGCCGCA 673 CCG[A/G]AG AGGCCAGCC AGTGCGGAA AGCAGCAGC AGCAGCATC AC chr 195505 C G MUC4 p.V42 0.025 0.000 6.23 Inf GGGGTGGCG SEQ 3 772 27L 74 00 E- TGACCTGTG ID 146 GATACTGAG No: GAAAGGCTG 674 GTGA[C/G]AG GAAGAGGGG TGGCGTGAC CTGTGGATG CTGAGGAAG TG chr 195508 G C MUC4 p.L342 0.009 0.000 2.06 51.1 GCGTGACCG SEQ 3 178 5V 80 19 E- 6[26. GTGGATGCT ID 37 23- GAGGAAGTG No: 99.7 CTGGTGACA 675 9] GGAA[G/C]A GGGGTGGCG TGACCTGTG GATGCTGAG GAAGGGCTA GTG chr 195508 T G MUC4 p.T341 0.016 0.000 6.58 38.6 CTGAGGAAG SEQ 3 194 9T 42 43 E- [24.1 TGCTGGTGA ID 58 9- CAGGAAGAG NO: 61.5 GGGTGGCGT 676 9] GACC[T/G]GT GGATGCTGA GGAAGGGCT AGTGACAGG AAGAGGCAT GG chr 195512 T C MUC4 p.S205 0.015 0.000 2.79 68.2 GGAAGAGGC SEQ 3 294 3G 20 23 E- 6[37. GTGGTGTCA ID 60 51- CCTGTGGAT NO: 124. ACTGAGGAA 677 21] AGGC[T/C]GG TGACAGGAA GAGGGGTGT CCTGACCTG TGGATGCTG AG chr 195512 C G MUC4 p.Q20 0.011 0.000 1.51 32.7 TGGATACTG SEQ 3 316 45H 27 35 E- 1[19. AGGAAAGGC ID 38 15- TGGTGACAG NO: 55.8 GAAGAGGGG 678 8] TGTC[C/G]TG ACCTGTGGA TGCTGAGGA AGTATCGGT GACAGGAAG CG chr 195512 G A MUC4 p.P182 0.011 0.000 3.64 352 TCACCTGTG SEQ 3 981 4S 52 03 E- [85.4 GATGCTGAG ID 54 7- GAAGCGTCG NO: 1449 GTGACAGGA 679 .66] AGAG[G/A]G GTGGTGTCA CCTGTGGAT GCTGAGGAA GGGCTGGTG ACA chr 196214 C T RNF16 p.R164 0.023 0.000 6.42 388. GTTCCTCATC SEQ 3 336 8 R 77 06 E- 53[1 ACTTTTCAGT ID 132 80.3- TGTTCTTCCA No: 837. TCGCTCTTCG 680 21] [C/T]CTTTTTT CTGCCTGTCT TTTTTCCTCT TCTTCCTCCT CTG chr 196214 T C RNF16 p.R164 0.009 0.000 1.81 Inf TCCTCATCA SEQ 3 338 8 G 56 00 E- CTTTTCAGTT ID 57 GTTCTTCCAT NO: CGCTCTTCG 681 CC[T/C]TTTT TCTGCCTGTC TTTTTTCCTC TTCTTCCTCC TCTGCC chr 265813 A T ZNF73 p.F277 0.022 0.000 2.19 492. TGAGGATGA SEQ 4 2 Y 30 05 E- 83[2 GGTAATGAT ID 124 00.2- TTTGCCACA NO: 1213 TTCTTCACAT 682 .19] GTG[A/T]AGG GTTTCTCTTC AGCATGAAT TCTCTTATGC TTAGTAAG chr 265825 T C ZNF73 p.E273 0.011 0.000 2.01 Inf AATGATTTT SEQ 4 2 G 52 00 E- GCCACATTC ID 68 TTCACATGT No: GAAGGGTTT 683 CTCT[T/C]CA GCATGAATT CTCTTATGCT TAGTAAGGG TTGAGGACC T chr 265829 C T ZNF73 p.A27 0.018 0.000 1.83 Inf ATTTTGCCA SEQ 4 2 2T 14 00 E- CATTCTTCAC ID 107 ATGTGAAGG No: GTTTCTCTTC 684 AG[C/T]ATGA ATTCTCTTAT GCTTAGTAA GGGTTGAGG ACCTATTA chr 436337 G A ZNF72 p.P640 0.008 0.000 4.30 Inf TGATGGGGC SEQ 4 1 L 82 00 E- AAAGGCTTT ID 53 GCCACACTC No: TTCACATTTG 685 TAA[G/A]GTT TCTCCCCAG TGTAAATTTT CTTCTGTTGA TTCAGGTC chr 436390 A G ZNF72 p.F622 0.005 0.000 3.07 660. TGTAAATTTT SEQ 4 1 F 88 01 E- 68[8 CTTCTGTTGA ID 34 9.36- TTCAGGTCC No: 4884 GTGTACCAT 686 .86] AC[A/G]AAGT CTTTGCCAC ACTCTTCAC ATTTGTAAA GTTTCTCTC chr 437293 A G ZNF72 p.Y32 0.013 0.000 1.88 103. ATGTGTAGG SEQ 4 1 1Y 73 13 E- 33[5 GTTTCTCTCC ID 67 8.4- AGTATGAAT No: 182. TCTCCTATGT 687 84] AC[A/G]TAAA GGTTTGCGG ACTGTCTAA AGGCTTTGC CACATACTT chr 676125 G C MFSD p.S434 0.007 0.004 9.52 1.71 GGCGCCGGT SEQ 4 7 R 11 18 E- [1.16- ATGGGGTGT ID 03 2.51] GGAAGAAGA No: CCGCCAGGA 688 TGCA[G/C]CT GAAGAAGGT GCACAGGCC GGCCATCAG CAGCAGAGA CA chr 138836 G A CRIPA p.A24 0.006 0.000 1.22 109. GGAGTGCCC SEQ 4 9 K T 86 06 E- 46[4 GCCTGCTCA ID 34 7.78- CACGTGCCC No: 250. ATGTGGAGT 689 72] GCCC[G/A]CC TGCTCATGT GCCCATGTG GAGTGCCCG CCTGCTCAC AC chr 138941 C T CRIPA p.P373 0.006 0.000 5.30 238. GAGTGCCCG SEQ 4 7 K L 37 03 E- 42[7 CCTGCTCAC ID 35 2.13- ACACGTGCC NO: 788. CATGTGGAG 690 02] TGCC[C/T]GC CTGCTCACA CGTGCCCAT GTGGAGTGC CTGCCTGCT CA chr 180550 C T FGFR p.T338 0.007 0.003 1.52 1.9[1 CCTTGCACA SEQ 4 2 3 T 35 89 E- .31- ACGTCACCT ID 03 2.75] TTGAGGACG NO: CCGGGGAGT 691 ACAC[C/T]TG CCTGGCGGG CAATTCTATT GGGTTTTCTC ATCACTCTG chr 341781 C T RGS12 p.A14 0.010 0.006 1.19 1.52 ATCGACAGC SEQ 4 1 9V 29 78 E- [1.11- CAGGCCCAG ID 02 2.08] CTAGCAGAC NO: GACGTCCTC 692 CGCG[C/T]AC CTCACCCAG ACATGTTCA AGGAGCAGC AGCTGCAGG TA chr 351988 C T LRPAP p.D21 0.005 0.003 4.80 1.62 AGCTCCGTG SEQ 4 1 1 1N 15 19 E- [1.04- TGCCTGCTG ID 02 2.51] TGCAGGACG NO: CTGCCCTTG 693 ATGT[C/T]GC TCAGGTCCG AGGGGCTAA TGACGTTCT CGTGGATTT CT chr 700663 G C TBC1 p.E166 0.006 0.004 2.71 1.58 AGCCAAGGA SEQ 4 6 D14 Q 62 20 E- [1.07- GAGGTGGCG ID 02 2.33] GTCCCTTAG NO: CACAGGAGG 694 CTCT[G/C]AA GTGGAGAAC GAAGGTAGA ATGTCTTCTA AAACCAGCG G chr 135457 C G NKX3- p.A11 0.005 0.000 8.15 Inf CCGAGGCTC SEQ 4 02 2 3P 15 00 E- AAGGATCCC ID 28 CCCGCAAGG NO: CCGGCCCCG 695 CTGG[C/G]CC CCCGCGCGT CCGCGCAGC GCCGCCTGC TCTCGTTCTC C chr 165042 T G LDB2 p.N36 0.020 0.000 1.23 2373 CTGGTGCCG SEQ 4 91 6T 83 01 E- .68[3 ATCATCTTAT ID 122 30.4 TGGGAAGCC NO: 6- TGGGGTGGG 696 1705 GGG[T/G]TTT 0.06] CTGATTTGG TCTCTTGAGT GGCGGGAGG TTTACTGTT chr 577972 A G REST p.I747 0.010 0.000 4.04 Inf CTCCTCCCAT SEQ 4 65 M 05 00 E- GGAGGTGGT ID 60 CCAGAAGGA No: GCCTGTTCA 697 GAT[A/G]GA GCTGTCTCCT CCCATGGAG GTGGTCCAG AAGGAACCT G chr 629360 C A LPHN p.N12 0.006 0.004 3.32 1.65 GTGAACAGA SEQ 4 92 3 92K 831 163 E- [1.01- ACAGGAATC ID 02 2.55] TGATGAACA NO: AGCTGGTGA 698 ATAA[C/A]CT TGGCAGTGG AAGGGAAGA TGATGCCAT TGTCCTGGA TG chr 694337 T A UGT2 p.D14 0.009 0.006 1.90 1.48 CAGCTCACC SEQ 4 63 B17 7V 80 63 E- [1.08- ACAGGGATT ID 02 2.04] AACGGCATC NO: TGCCAGAAG 699 GACA[T/A]CA AATTTTGAC TCTTGTAGTT TTCTCATAA GTTTCTTGTT chr 698747 T C UGT2 p.T134 0.010 0.000 4.99 27.9 AACAATGGA SEQ 4 38 B10 A 78 39 E- [18.3 ATGCCCACC ID 40 1- ATAGGGATC NO: 42.5 CCATGGTAG 700 3] ATTGCT CGTAGATGC CATTGGCTC CACCATGAG TTATAAAAG CT chr 698747 G A UGT2 p.Y13 0.011 0.000 1.22 26.1 ATGGAATGC SEQ 4 42 B10 2Y 76 45 E- 7[17. CCACCATAG ID 42 59- GGATCCCAT NO: 38.9 GGTAGATTG 701 4] TCTC[G/A]TA GATGCCATT GGCTCCACC ATGAGTTAT AAAAGCTCT GG chr 712325 C A SMR3 p.S79 0.007 0.000 8.43 Inf CCCCTTTCTC SEQ 4 42 A Y 60 00 E- CACCCTATG ID 46 GTCCAGGGA NO: GAATCCCAC 702 CAT[C/A]CCC TCCTCCACC CTATGGTCC AGGGAGAAT TCAATCACA C chr 723385 A G SLC4A p.K60 0.007 0.003 7.37 2.04 TCCTCTCTGA SEQ 4 89 4 2R 11 50 E- [1.4- TTAGCTTCAT ID 04 2.98] CTTTATCTAT NO: GATGCTTTC 703 A[A/G]GAAG ATGATCAAG CTTGCAGAT TACTACCCC ATCAACTCC chr 772045 C T FAM4 p.R283 0.010 0.006 1.10 1.54 TTAGTTCCTT SEQ 4 70 7E C 29 72 E- [1.12- GAGAATATG ID 02 2.12] TATATCGGG NO: AAGGAATGT 704 AAA[C/T]GTG CATGTAATA AGACTCCTA TAAAACGAA CTCAAGCAT A chr 797921 G A BMP2 p.Q48 0.012 0.000 1.06 1376 AACAGCAAC SEQ 4 48 K 1Q 75 01 E- .85[1 AGCAGCAGC ID 73 90.3- AGCAACAGC NO: 9961 AACAGCAGC 705 .91] AGCA[G/A]C AGCAGCAGC AGCAGCACC ACCACCACC ACCACCACC ACC chr 819672 C T BMP3 p.T222 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.79 GCCAAAGAA SEQ 4 40 M 49 62 E+0 [0.19- AATGAAGAG ID 0 3.22] TTCCTCATA NO: GGATTTAAC 706 ATTA[C/T]GT CCAAGGGAC GCCAGCTGC CAAAGAGGA GGTTACCTTT T chr 876662 A G PTPN1 p.H86 0.009 0.005 1.49 1.77 AAGATATGC SEQ 4 25 3 5R 31 28 E- [1.27- CAGTACCTG ID 03 2.46] CTGCACCTC NO: TGCTCTTACC 707 AGC[A/G]TAA GTTCCAGCT ACAGATGAG AGCAAGACA GAGCAACCA A chr 876722 G T PTPN1 p.D10 0.008 0.005 9.90 1.61 GAGTTTAAA SEQ 4 35 3 42Y 82 50 E- [1.15- TAGAAGTCC ID 03 2.26] TGAAAGGAG NO: GAAACATGA 708 ATCA[G/T]AC TCCTCATCC ATTGAAGAC CCTGGGCAA GCATATGTT CT chr 877491 G A SLC10 p.H24 0.028 0.000 2.75 Inf AGTTTATGG SEQ 4 62 A6 9Y 68 00 E- ATAGTTTAA ID 171 CTATACCTTT NO: GCCAAGACT 709 GGT[G/A]GGT AAAAAGTGC CAGCAGAAA ACCCGTGAC ATGGCCAAT C chr 885375 C T DSPP p.S124 0.010 0.000 3.86 Inf AAAGCAGCG SEQ 4 52 6S 78 00 E- ACAGCAGTG ID 52 ACAGCAGCG NO: ATAGCAGTG 710 ACAG[C/T]AG CAACAGCAG TGACAGCAG CGACAGCAG TGATAGCAG TG chr 885375 C T DSPP p.N12 0.011 0.000 5.36 54.1 GCGACAGCA SEQ 4 58 48N 52 22 E- 4[28. GTGACAGCA ID 43 06- GCGATAGCA No: 104. GTGACAGCA 711 46] GCAA[C/T]AG CAGTGACAG CAGCGACAG CAGTGATAG CAGTGACAG CA chr 113303 A G ALPK1 p.Q67 0.011 0.007 2.92 1.61 GCAAAGGAA SEQ 4 632 R 76 35 E- [1.2- ATGAAGTGG ID 03 2.15] CCCTTCGTG NO: CCTGAAAAG 712 TGGC[A/G]GT ACAAACAAG CCGTGGGCC CAGAGGACA AAACAAACC TG chr 115997 T C NDST4 p.I283 0.012 0.009 3.24 1.37 AGCCTCTTC SEQ 4 346 V 75 37 E- [1.03- CCTGACAAG ID 02 1.81] AAGGAGATG NO: GCATCTATG 713 AAGA[T/C]GA GCTTGTGCA GCCAAAAGT TCAAGTTGT TGCCAAAAA GT chr 125592 G A ANKR p.A52 0.011 0.008 3.46 1.39 CATTATCTA SEQ 4 869 D50 1A 27 16 E- [1.03- ATAATGTCC ID 02 1.87] GAATGGAAT No: CCTCTCTTTC 714 TAA[G/A]GCT TGTCGAACT ATGCATGAT GTGCGATCG TCTTCACTGT chr 153690 G A TIGD4 p.T477 0.005 0.003 1.38 1.74 ATCTTGACTT SEQ 4 727 I 88 39 E- [1.15- CTGAGAAAT ID 02 2.63] TTTTTCAGA No: GTATCTAAA 715 GCA[G/A]TTA TTGCCTCAG ATTTTGATG GTAAAGGGA GTTCAGTTC C chr 165962 A T TRIM6 p.E422 0.006 0.003 2.13 1.64 TAGTAAAAC SEQ 4 490 0 D 37 89 E- [1.11- CCAGTAAAA ID 02 2.45] TTGGTATTTT No: TCTGGACTA 716 TGA[A/T]TTG GGTGATCTT TCCTTTTATA ATATGAATG ATAGGTCTA chr 166300 T C CPE p.F51L 0.005 0.000 4.59 Inf GAGGCGGCG SEQ 4 524 15 00 E- CCGGCGGCT ID 30 GCAGCAAGA No: GGACGGCAT 717 CTCC[T/C]TC GAGTACCAC CGCTACCCC GAGCTGCGC GAGGCGCTC GT chr 167656 A T SPOC p.X31 0.003 not 5.64 Inf TTAGAAATG SEQ 4 074 K3 7R 93 found E- TAGAATTTA ID 08 TTGATTTCA No: ACTGTCATC 718 AATC[A/T]AA TGTATACAT CATGGTCAT CACCACCAT CATCATCAT CC chr 170671 C G C4orf2 p.G82 0.005 0.003 4.94 1.6[1 TTCTTCGTTT SEQ 4 841 7 R 15 23 E- .03- TATGTTTTCC ID 02 2.48] AGCAAGGAT No: ATCATAAGG 719 AC[C/G]AACT AATTGAAGT CCAAGGCTT GCAGAAAGT GAATCTATA chr 175898 T C ADAM p.W73 0.006 0.000 1.43 33.5 TCAGCGTCG SEQ 4 879 29 5R 37 19 E- 3[18. ACCTCATGA ID 25 85- GTTACCTCC No: 59.6 CCAGAGTCA 720 3] ACCT[T/C]GG GTGATGCCT TCCCAGAGT CAACCTCCT GTGACGCCT TC chr 175898 C T ADAM p.S757 0.006 0.000 7.49 12.9 CTGTGACGC SEQ 4 947 29 S 62 52 E- 1[8.1 CTTCCCAGA ID 19 6- GTCATCCTC No: 20.4 AGGTGATGC 721 2] CTTC[C/T]CA GAGTCAACC TCCTGTGAC ACCCTCCCA GAGTCAACC TC chr 177083 G A WDR1 p.D93 0.006 0.004 1.23 1.7[1 GCACAAAGT SEQ 4 272 7 3N 86 05 E- .16- CAGTAAAGA ID 02 2.49] ACTGGCAGA No: ATGGTATTTT 722 CAA[G/A]ATG GTCGAGCAG TACTAGCCG CATGTTGCC ATCTTGCCA T chr 191718 C G LRRC1 p.A22 0.008 0.000 8.74 Inf TTCATTTCTG SEQ 5 4B G 82 00 E- CAGAAGCTC ID 53 TGGTGTCCC No: ACCCCCAGG 723 TGG[C/G]CCG GCAGAGCCT GGACAGCGT GGCCCACAA CCTCTACCC A chr 891400 T C BRD9 p.K39 0.000 0.001 5.63 10[5 CCGTGTCAC SEQ 5 R 90 70 E- -21] AGTGCTCCC ID 09 TCTCTCGCTT No: CCGCTTCTTC 724 TC[T/C]TCCT GGGCGGCAG AGTCAAGGG AGTGAGAAA GGCAGGAGT chr 739660 T G ADCY p.F65 0.008 0.000 3.47 Inf GCTCATCGT SEQ 5 2 2 V 58 00 E- CATGGGCTC ID 49 CTGCCTCGC No: CCTGCTCGC 725 CGTC[T/G]TC TTCGCGCTC GGGCTGGTG AGTGGCCTC CCCGCGGGT CC chr 369854 G A NIPBL p.G72 0.005 0.000 9.80 628. GTGAAAGCC SEQ 5 42 0G 64 01 E- 63[8 GGCCTGAGA ID 33 4.88- CTCCAAAAC No: 4655 AAAAGAGTG 726 .98] ATGG[G/A]CA TCCTGAAAC CCCAAAACA GAAGGGTGA TGGAAGGCC TG chr 523473 A C ITGA2 p.T252 0.008 0.005 2.65 1.51 CATCCCAGA SEQ 5 66 T 58 69 E- [1.07- CATCCCAAT ID 02 2.13] ATGGTGGGG No: ACCTCACAA 727 ACAC[A/C]TT CGGAGCAAT TCAATATGC AAGGTAAGT TTTGGTGCT AA chr 550836 G T DDX4 p.A19 0.005 0.000 2.43 603. GCAACTTAA SEQ 5 98 9S 39 01 E- 79[8 CTTCTAGGC ID 31 1.37- GGCTTTTCTC No: 4480 CTACCAATT 728 .44] TTG[G/T]CTC ATATGATGC ATGATGGAA TAACTGCCA GTCGTTTTA A chr 708062 C A BDP1 p.G11 0.008 0.000 1.09 Inf TGGAAGAAA SEQ 5 31 04G 09 00 E- CTGAAAGAG ID 48 AAATATCCC No: CACAGGAAA 729 ATGG[C/A]CT AGAGGAGGT TAAGCCTCT AGGTGAAAT GCAAACAGA TT chr 715167 G C MRPS p.Q39 0.005 0.003 3.05 1.68 GCTTTCTGA SEQ 5 95 27 6E 15 06 E- [1.08- GCCTGGTAC ID 02 2.62] TCCTGCTTCG No: CTTGCTCCCT 730 CT[G/C]TTGC TGTTCTCTCT GGATCAACT GTACAAGGT CTAGATGC chr 762495 G A CRHB p.P53P 0.010 0.007 4.12 1.4[1 TCAGCGCCA SEQ 5 03 P 29 39 E- .02- ACCTGAAGC ID 02 1.91] GGGAGCTGG No: CTGGGGAGC 731 AGCC[G/A]TA CCGCCGCGC TCTGCGTGA GTCGAGGCT GCCCGGCTC GC chr 762498 A AC CRHB NM_ 0.006 not 7.44 223. GCTGCAGCC SEQ 5 52 P 001882: 87 found E- 6?46. CGGGACTTA ID exon3: 12 4- TTGCCCCAT No: c.176- 1077 GCCCTCCTC 732 2- > C .6? CCCC[A/AC]G GGTGCCTGG ACATGCTGA GCCTCCAGG GCCAGTTCA CCT chr 767606 C T WDR4 p.G61 0.005 0.003 3.47 1.62 ACACACCTG SEQ 5 20 1 D 88 65 E- ?1.07- GGCATTCCA ID 02 2.44? CACAACTAC No: AATTCCATC 733 ATCA[C/T]CA GCAGATGCA AATCTGGTT AGGGAGAAA GGGTCAAGA AA chr 798548 A G ANKR p.V33 0.005 0.003 2.71 1.65 AAATATTGT SEQ 5 26 D34B 8A 39 28 E- ?1.07- CTGGTTAGA ID 02 2.54? ATCTGGGTC No: CTGGTCAAC 734 AGGG[A/G]CT TCAATGCAT TGCTGATTTC CTTCTGAAA GATAAGATT G chr 899698 A G GPR98 p.I164 0.010 0.006 2.82 1.44 GCTTAGTGC SEQ 5 80 7V 05 98 E- [1.05- CTCTGGATA ID 02 1.98] TTTATATTTT No: TAGGTTCTG 735 AAT[A/G]TAT ATGTTCTTG ATGATGATA TTCCTGAAC TTAATGAGT A chr 899795 G A GPR98 p.D19 0.009 0.005 6.02 1.64 TATCACTGT SEQ 5 68 44N 31 69 E- [1.18- GGAGATATT ID 03 2.28] GCCTGACGA No: AGACCCAGA 736 ACTG[G/A]AT AAGGCATTC TCTGTGTCA GTCCTCAGT GTTTCCAGT GG chr 929210 C T NR2F1 p.H97 0.029 0.000 1.83 838. TCGAGTGCG SEQ 5 20 H 66 04 E- 44[3 TGGTGTGCG ID 169 09.5 GGGACAAGT No: 1- CGAGCGGCA 737 2271 AGCA[C/T]TA .28] CGGCCAATT CACCTGCGA GGGCTGCAA AAGTTTCTTC A chr 134002 G C SEC24 p.A22 0.013 0.000 5.18 1523 TCATGGGCC SEQ 5 614 A 3P 48 01 E- .15[2 CCCTCCAGC ID 79 10.7 TGGAGGCCC NO: 3- ACCCCCAGT 738 1100 GAGG[G/C]CC 9.22] CTCACGCCC CTGACATCA TCATATAGA GATGTACCC CA chr 137621 C T CDC2 p.R388 0.006 0.003 2.71 1.63 TCATGGGCT SEQ 5 421 5C Q 13 76 E- [1.09- CATGTCCTTC ID 02 2.45] ACCAGAAGG NO: GCAATCTGC 739 TCC[C/T]GCA GCTGCCGCT CCCCTTCCTG CACTTTGCTC TGGCTTCG chr 140209 G A PCDH p.R498 0.006 0.004 3.84 1.55 AGGAGAACG SEQ 5 170 A6 R 62 29 E- [1.05- CGCTGGTGT ID 02 2.28] CCTACTCGC NO: TGGTGGAGC 740 GGCG[G/A]GT GGGCGAGCG CGCGTTGTC GAGCTACAT TTCGGTGCA CG chr 140559 T C PCDH p.L576 0.007 0.003 8.04 2.02 CTGTACCCG SEQ 5 342 B8 P 11 53 E- [1.38- CTGCAGAAT ID 04 2.95] GGCTCCGCG NO: CCCTGCACC 741 GAGC[T/C]GG TGCCCCGGG CGGCCGAGC CGGGCTACC TGGTGACCA AG chr 141336 G A PCDH p.T261 0.009 0.005 7.37 1.6[1 GCCTTGGTC SEQ 5 635 12 M 56 98 E- .16- AGGGTCTGT ID 03 2.22] GGCGGTCAG NO: TTTTATGAG 742 AAGC[G/A]TA CCAGGTGCA GCATCTTCTT GGATTTCCA GTGCCAGTG A chr 141694 G T SPRY4 p.S218 0.014 0.001 2.15 11.5 GCAGTTGGA SEQ 5 021 Y 31 26 E- [7.94- GCGGGAGCA ID 28 16.4 GGAGCAGGG NO: 1] GTGGTCAGC 743 GCAG[G/T]AG CCCTCATCG TCCTCATTCG TGCAGTGGT AGAAGATGC C chr 148384 T A SH3TC p.D12 0.007 0.004 2.62 1.84 GACCGCTGC SEQ 5 455 2 29V 35 02 E- [1.27- TGCCAGGGC ID 03 2.66] CAGAAGGAA No: GTACTCAGT 744 GGCA[T/A]CA TGGGCATCC TAACCCCGT GGTATGGGG GCAAAGAAG AG chr 149276 T G PDE6 p.Q49 0.019 0.001 8.09 11.3 ATTTATTAAT SEQ 5 063 A 2H 52 76 E- 2[8.1 TTCGTATTTA ID 37 7- TCTGCATCT No: 15.5 GGCAGCTCC 745 51] GC[T/G]TGCT GTATAAGGA ATAGAGTCA GGTGATTAG GAAACATGA chr 149301 G A PDE6 p.P293 0.007 0.004 3.83 1.5[1 CCTGGGACC SEQ 5 253 A L 11 75 E- .03- AGAGTAAGG ID 02 2.18] TGGAACTTC No: ACCCATCAG 746 AACC[G/A]GC CACACATCA AAAAATTCC TAGGAATGA GAAAAACAA TA chr 149512 C T PDGF p.V31 0.006 0.004 1.88 1.64 TCAGCAAAT SEQ 5 494 RB 6M 86 19 E- [1.11- TGTAGTGTG ID 02 2.43 2.43] CCCACCTCT No: CCCAGGAGC 747 CGCA[C/T]GT AGCCGCTCT CTGCAAGGG GTGACCGTC AGGGGCGGG GC chr 150905 G T FAT2 p.P347 0.006 0.000 4.42 Inf CCTCCTGCTT SEQ 5 399 9Q 13 00 E- AGGCCCTCA ID 37 GCAGTCACC No: AGCCATCCA 748 TCC[G/T]GGG TCACTCGGA AGGCAGAGC CGTTGTTCCC CTTGGTGAT chr 167689 C A TENM p.R257 0.005 0.003 2.93 1.71 CATCATTGG SEQ 5 228 2 1R 15 02 E- [1.1- CAAAGGCAT ID 02 2.66] CATGTTTGC No: CATCAAAGA 749 AGGG[C/A]G GGTGACCAC GGGCGTGTC CAGCATCGC CAGCGAAGA TAG chr 167881 A T WWC1 p.E862 0.011 0.000 5.03 Inf GAGAATGAG SEQ 5 032 V 76 00 E- GCAGTAGCC ID 70 GAGGAAGAG NO: GAGGAGGAG 750 GTGG[A/T]GG AGGAGGAGG GAGAAGAGG ATGTTTTCAC CGAGAAAGC C chr 168112 G A SLIT3 p.A11 0.005 0.002 1.12 2.16 AAGGGCAGG SEQ 5 707 80A 64 62 E- [1.41- GCAGGGCGG ID 03 3.31] GACACACCT NO: GCAGGGAGA 751 TGTT[G/A]GC CTGGGGTCG GACCTTGGC GGAGGCCAG TTCCACGTA GG chr 171661 T C UBTD p.A89 0.009 0.006 3.47 1.45 CATGTGGTA SEQ 5 166 2 A 07 28 E- [1.04- ATGTTATGTT ID 02 2.02] TGCACCATC NO: AATGATTGC 752 TTG[T/C]GCC AGTTCATGA TCATTGCTCT CAAAAGCAT GTGCAGCAG chr 178139 C T ZNF35 p.E498 0.020 0.002 8.40 8.69 GATTACTAA SEQ 5 385 4A E 34 38 E- [6.78- GTGATGAGT ID 44 11.1 TACACCTGA NO: 4] ATGTTTTCCC 753 ACA[C/T]TCG TTACATTTAT AGGGTCTTT CTCCAGTAT GCATTCTCT chr 178139 T C ZNF35 p.K49 0.020 0.002 4.38 7.3[5 GTGATGAGT SEQ 5 394 4A 5K 34 84 E- .72- TACACCTGA ID 39 9.32] ATGTTTTCCC NO: ACACTCGTT 754 ACA[T/C]TTA TAGGGTCTT TCTCCAGTA TGCATTCTCT GATGTTGAA chr 179192 A G MAML1 p.T110 0.010 0.007 4.35 1.4[1 AAGTCATTC SEQ 5 341 T 54 57 E- .03- TTTTCAATGT ID 02 1.9] TTTTCAGCAT NO: CTTCATGAT 755 AC[A/G]GTTA AGAGGAATC TTGACAGCG CCACTTCCC CTCAGAATG chr 179192 C T MAML1 p.Y13 0.010 0.007 4.35 1.4[1 GCGCCACTT SEQ 5 401 0Y 54 56 E- .03- CCCCTCAGA ID 02 1.9] ATGGCGATC NO: AACAGAATG 756 GCTA[C/T]GG GGACCTCTT TCCTGGGCA TAAGAAGAC TCGCCGGGA GG chr 117684 C T ADTR p.T96 0.005 0.002 6.64 2.12 CACATTTCT SEQ 6 82 P T 53 61 E- [1.22- GTTAGATTA ID 03 3.46] TGTACACAT NO: CTTTGAAAC 757 TTAC[C/T]GT GGATACAGG AAAAGCCAG AGTGGTGAA AAGCAGGTC TC chr 260322 C T HIST1 p.K24 0.007 0.000 8.79 Inf TTTTCACGCC SEQ 6 17 H3B K 11 00 E- GCCGGTAGC ID 43 CGGCGCGCT NO: CTTGCGAGC 758 AGC[C/T]TTG GTAGCCAGC TGCTTGCGT GGCGCTTTA CCGCCGGTG G chr 294087 T G OR10C1 p.M31 0.009 0.005 7.68 1.63 AAAGCTGCC SEQ 6 21 0R 07 59 E- [1.17- CTAAAGAGA ID 03 2.27] ACCATCCAG NO: AAAACGGTG 759 CCTA[T/G]GG AGATTTGAA AAGGGGGCG ATAGTGACT TCTGTGCAG TG chr 300389 C T RNF39 p.L337 0.005 0.003 3.63 1.59 GTACAATGC SEQ 6 42 L 88 72 E- [1.04- GGAGCGGAG ID 02 2.41] CACGAGGGT NO: CGCAGGTGC 760 AGAA[C/T]AG CGGGAAGAT GCGCTCCCC CAGGGGGCC AGGCGCCTG GA chr 306732 G A MDC1 p.A12 0.011 0.000 4.12 264. AGGGGTCTT SEQ 6 80 27V 76 04 E- 73[1 GACAGAGGA ID 64 05.3 TCTATTTTTT NO: 3- CTTCCCCTA 761 665. GTA[G/A]CCT 33] GAGAGGTGG GTTCAGAGG TGACAGGTC GGTCGGTGG A chr 309171 G A DPCR1 p.G29 0.020 0.000 2.77 Inf GAGCTCACA SEQ 6 10 0E 59 00 E- CAATCTCTA ID 100 GCAGAGCCT No: ACAGAACAT 762 GGAG[G/A]A AGGACAGCC AATGAGAAC AACACACCA TCCCCAGCA GAG chr 309174 T C DPCR1 p.T392 0.006 0.000 2.15 78.3 AGCCTACAG SEQ 6 17 T 37 08 E- 3[27. AACATGGAG ID 25 32- AAAGGACAG No: 224. CCAATGAGA 763 54] ACAC[T/C]AC ACCATCCCC AGCAGAGCC TACAGAACA TGGAGAAAG GA chr 309178 A G DPCR1 p.E539 0.012 0.000 4.79 Inf ACCCCACTG SEQ 6 57 G 25 00 E- GCCAATGAG ID 60 AACACCACA No: CCATCCCCA 764 GCAG[A/G]G CCTACAGAA AATAGAGAA AGGACAGCC AATGAGAAG ACC chr 309181 G A DPCR1 p.G64 0.005 0.000 6.87 42.3 GAAAGGACA SEQ 6 60 0E 64 13 E- 5[18. GCCAATGAG ID 21 16- AACACCACA No: 98.7 CCATCCCCA 765 4] GCAG[G/A]G CCTACAGAA AATAGAGAA ATGACAGCC AACGAGAAG ACC chr 309207 A C DPCR1 p.Y13 0.005 0.002 4.32 1.75 GTTCTCATTC SEQ 6 55 48S 21 99 E- [0.98- CTCCTTTCTC ID 02 2.88] ATCCCAATC No: ACAGGTCTC 766 CT[A/C]TATG ATGCGGACA CGCCGCACA CTAACCCAG AACACCCAG chr 309543 C T MUC21 p.S125 0.013 0.000 5.07 Inf CAACCTCCA SEQ 6 27 S 24 00 E- GTGGGGCCA ID 73 GCACAGCCA No: CCAACTCTG 767 AGTC[C/T]AG CACACCCTC CAGTGGGGC CAGCACAGC CACCAACTC TG chr 309544 A G MUC21 p.S163 0.019 0.000 1.38 Inf AGCCACCAA SEQ 6 39 G 61 00 E- CTCTGACTC ID 116 CAGCACAAC No: CTCCAGTGA 768 GGCC[A/G]GC ACAGCCACC AACTCTGAG TCCAGCACA ACCTCCAGT GG chr 309956 C T MUC22 p.S809 0.009 0.000 5.89 Inf CTACAGTTT SEQ 6 35 S 56 00 E- CCACCACAG ID 43 GCTTGGAGA No: CCACCACCA 769 CTTC[C/T]AC TGAAGGCTC TGAGATGAC TACAGTCTC CACCACAGG TG chr 316916 C A C6orf25 p.G10 0.005 0.002 2.87 2.08 TCCGGCGGC SEQ 6 66 4G 39 60 E- [1.35- TGGAGCTCC ID 03 3.22] TCTTGAGCG No: CGGGGGACT 770 CGGG[C/A]AC TTTTTTCTGC AAGGGCCGC CACGAGGAC GAGAGCCGT A chr 317368 C T VWA7 p.R488 0.005 0.002 1.64 2.13 CAGGGCAGC SEQ 6 35 Q 39 54 E- [1.38- CATGCTCTC ID 03 3.29] CCCAACAAT No: GGCTGCCAC 771 GTCT[C/T]GA ATGTGCTGG TCTTTGGTG AAGATCACC TCTCCTCCTG A chr 326342 A G HLA- p.S35P 0.007 0.004 1.76 1.73 TGGCGGCTC SEQ 6 82 DQB1 48 33 E- [1.09- TGGAGAGCA ID 02 2.64] GCTGCCCTG No: CACTTACCG 772 GGAG[A/G]G TCTCTGCCCT CAGCCAGTA GGGAGCTCA GCATCGCCA GC chr 327136 C A HLA- p.P128 0.006 0.000 1.10 Inf GTCACAGTG SEQ 6 19 DQA2 H 62 00 E- TTTTCCAAGT ID 39 TTCCTGTGA No: CGCTGGGTC 773 AGC[C/A]CAA CACCCTCAT CTGTCTTGTG GACAACATC TTTCCTCCT chr 327140 T G HLA- p.L219 0.020 0.000 4.06 2275 GCCTGAGAT SEQ 6 58 DQA2 V 59 01 E- .46[3 TCCAGCCCC ID 120 16.7 TATGTCAGA NO: 4- GCTCACAGA 774 1634 GACT[T/G]TG 6.8] GTCTGCGCC CTGGGGTTG TCTGTGGGC CTCATGGGC AT chr 327141 C G HLA- p.G23 0.012 0.000 1.19 Inf CCCTGGGGT SEQ 6 08 DQA2 5G 75 00 E- TGTCTGTGG ID 75 GCCTCATGG NO: GCATTGTGG 775 TGGG[C/G]AC TGTCTTCATC ATCCAAGGC CTGCGTTCA GTTGGTGCT T chr 327141 T C HLA- p.T236 0.012 0.000 3.37 Inf TGGGGTTGT SEQ 6 11 DQA2 T 50 00 E- CTGTGGGCC ID 74 TCATGGGCA No: TTGTGGTGG 776 GCAC[T/C]GT CTTCATCATC CAAGGCCTG CGTTCAGTT GGTGCTTCC A chr 327141 C G HLA- p.F238 0.016 0.000 4.00 Inf TGTCTGTGG SEQ 6 17 DQA2 L 91 00 E- GCCTCATGG ID 100 GCATTGTGG No: TGGGCACTG 777 TCTT[C/G]AT CATCCAAGG CCTGCGTTC AGTTGGTGC TTCCAGACA CC chr 328200 C A TAP1 p.V30 0.005 0.002 1.19 2.21 TGCACGTGG SEQ 6 00 4L 39 45 E- [1.43- CCCATGGTG ID 03 3.42] TTGTTATAG NO: ATCCCGTCA 778 CCCA[C/A]GA ACTCCAGCA CTGCACTAT AAAGAACCC GGAAAAAAA GG chr 333658 G T KIFC1 p.R5S 0.005 0.003 3.11 1.62 CTCCTGGGT SEQ 6 08 64 49 E- [1.06- ATTGTCTTA ID 02 2.47] AGGGTCTCT NO: TTTCCCAAC 779 AGAG[G/T]TC CCCCCTATT GGAAGTAAA GGGGAACAT AGAACTGAA GA chr 340039 C T GRM4 p.S520S 0.005 0.003 4.08 1.59 AGCTGATGC SEQ 6 28 39 40 E- [1.03- TCATCCCTA ID 02 2.45] GTCCCAGGA No: AGATTCGGC 780 GCAG[C/T]GA GCAGGTGCC AAGGTCGGG CTCAGCGAT CATGAGGAA GG chr 357150 C T ARMC p.I188I 0.005 0.002 1.08 1.84 AGGAACACT SEQ 6 76 12 15 81 E- [1.18- CCATCAAAG ID 02 2.86] TACTCGAAC No: TGATCTCCA 781 CCAT[C/T]TG GGACACGGA ACTGCACAT TGCGGGCCT CAGACTCCT CA chr 367100 T A CPNE5 p.I593F 0.006 0.000 5.82 Inf CCCAGGCCC SEQ 6 50 62 00 E- CAGCCACCT ID 39 GCCTGCTGA No: GACCAGGTT 782 CAGA[T/A]GT GCGTGTGCA GGGGGGACG CAGGGGGCG TGCGGGCTG GG chr 392828 G A KCNK p.Q25 0.007 0.004 4.28 1.75 CCTCAGCTT SEQ 6 16 16 1X 84 49 E- [1.23- CCCAGTCCT ID 03 2.51] TTCTTGGAT No: ATGGGGAAG 783 TCCT[G/A]GG GTGTGACTT GGACTCCTC TTGCTGCTGT AGAGCCTCT C chr 441438 G A CAPN p.A29 0.005 0.002 2.43 1.85 ACTGGAATC SEQ 6 62 11 7T 21 82 E- [1.04- CATGACTGA ID 02 3.06] CAAGATGCT No: GGTGAGAGG 784 GCAC[G/A]CT TACTCTGTG ACTGGCCTT CAGGATGTG AGTCCTGAG AA chr 466559 C G TDRD6 p.A12A 0.012 0.000 4.48 Inf TCAAGATGT SEQ 6 01 01 00 E- GCTCGACGC ID 58 CCGGAATGC No: CGGCGCCGG 785 GGGC[C/G]TC GCTGGCCCT GCGGGTGTC CTTCGTGGA CGTGCATCC CG chr 560330 G A COL21A1 p.T343M 0.067 0.071 3.19 0.94 TACTAAGAG SEQ 6 94 40 69 E- [0.83- ACGAATTTG ID 01 1.06] GTGCCAGCC NO: TTCATCAAA 786 CAAC[G/A]TC TACAAAAAG AAAGTGTGG AAGATTCAT AAATAAAGC CC chr 767318 G A IMPG1 p.N13 0.010 0.007 3.74 1.39 AACTCTAGG SEQ 6 54 7N 78 76 E- [1.03- AACTTCTTA ID 02 1.89] CTGTTGTAG NO: GCATCTTGG 787 TGTC[G/A]TT GAGTGTATT ATCGAGAAT TTCATTGAG GAGGGTGTC AT chr 843032 T C SNAP91 p.T553 0.010 0.007 1.83 1.49 AAATTACCA SEQ 6 30 A 78 26 E- [1.09- CCAAAGATA ID 02 2.04] TCTAGAGCA NO: GGAGGAGCA 788 GTGG[T/C]GG CGGTGGCAG CGGAGGTGG TGGTAGTGG TGGTGGCAG CG chr 854737 C T TBX18 p.G48 0.414 0.494 5.64 0.72 GCGCCGCCG SEQ 6 58 R 71 51 E- [0.68- CCGCGGCTG ID 23 0.77] CAGCCTCCG NO: TCGTCCACG 789 GCCC[C/T]CG CCGCCTCTTC GGCGCCCAG TTTTCGCCGC TTCTTCTGA chr 861950 G A NT5E p.V27 0.007 0.004 1.07 1.64 ATTCATAGT SEQ 6 33 8I 60 66 E- [1.14- CACTTCTGA ID 02 2.35] TGATGGGCG NO: GAAGGTTCC 790 TGTA[G/A]TC CAGGCCTAT GCTTTTGGC AAATACCTA GGCTATCTG AA chr 905721 G A CASP8 p.G23 0.005 0.003 2.39 1.69 AATGGTGTT SEQ 6 38 AP2 7D 39 19 E- [1.1- TGGTCACGT ID 02 2.61] TCTCATTATC NO: AGGTTGGCG 791 AGG[G/A]TA GCTCAAATG AGGATAGTA GAAGAGGAA GAAAAGATA TT chr 108882 A T FOXO3 p.S26C 0.005 0.000 2.37 20.8 TCCGCTCGA SEQ 6 487 39 26 E- 1[10. AGTGGAGCT ID 17 92- GGACCCGGA No: 39.6 GTTCGAGCC 792 5] CCAG[A/T]GC CGTCCGCGA TCCTGTACG TGGCCCCTG CAAAGGCCG GA chr 109867 T C AK9 p.E103 0.023 0.000 6.49 295. CGTTCTCAG SEQ 6 190 5E 28 08 E- 82[1 AATCTTCCTC ID 127 49.2 AAATTCAGG No: 3- TCCCACTTTC 793 586. TT[T/C]TCAG 43] TTTTGAGTA GTAGTTTTTC TTGAAGAAC TTCTTCAA chr 126073 T G HEY2 p.L74 0.005 0.003 3.66 1.58 GGGATCGGA SEQ 6 212 L 88 72 E- [1.05- TAAATAACA ID 02 2.39] GTTTATCTG No: AGTTGAGAA 794 GACT[T/G]GT GCCAACTGC TTTTGAAAA ACAAGTAAG CTATCCCCTC C chr 136597 G A BCLA p.P497 0.005 0.002 2.13 2.47 TCAAAGAGG SEQ 6 174 F1 S 64 29 E- [1.61- TCTTTGAGCT ID 04 3.78] TTTCAGACTT No: TACCTGCTC 795 AG[G/A]TGAC TGAGTTTCTT TCTTTACTGT TATTCTTTCA GAATTT chr 136597 C A BCLA p.E403 0.008 0.004 1.21 1.83 AGGACTGAC SEQ 6 456 F1 X 58 71 E- [1.3- TTCCTGAAC ID 03 2.58] TGTCTATAA No: TCCTCTGTCT 796 CCT[C/A]TGT GTCATCCCC TTCTGAATC ATTAAACTT TTGTTTTCCA chr 137814 G T OLIG3 p.I124I 0.024 0.000 1.52 2806 TGAGCATGA SEQ 6 936 51 01 E- .41[3 GGATGTAGT ID 144 91.3 TTCTGGCGA No: 8- GCAGGAGTG 797 2012 TGGC[G/T]AT 3.7] CTTGGAGAG CTTGCGCAC CGACGGCCC ATGCGCGTA GG chr 139113 A T CCDC p.T271 0.008 0.002 7.18 3.81 ACAAAAACT SEQ 6 926 28A S 14 15 E- [2.41- CCATTTGGC ID 08 5.78] AGATGCACA NO: AGATGTTCC 798 AAAT[A/T]CT TCTGCTAGC TAAAATGAA ATGTAGTTT GCTTTCTTGT G chr 152457 C T SYNE1 p.E853 0.008 0.001 6.73 5.3[3 GGCACTGCA SEQ 6 795 9E 36 60 E- .21- TCAGGGCAT ID 08 8.74] CCTGCAGCA NO: GGCCCCGCC 799 ACTC[C/T]TC CAGCAGAGA GCACACTCG GTCCCAGCG CCCATTCAT CT chr 155143 A G SCAF8 p.T629 0.005 0.003 3.35 1.59 TCAGAGCCC SEQ 6 502 A 64 54 E- [1.05- AACTCCAGT ID 02 2.43] TGAAAAGGA NO: GACAGTGGT 800 CACA[A/G]CC CAGGCAGAG GTTTTCCCTC CTCCTGTTGC TATGTTGCA chr 158487 T C SYNE p.M29 0.009 0.005 9.88 1.57 CAGTCCGAA SEQ 6 551 7T 31 94 E- [1.13- TTCACAAAT ID 03 2.18] TTCAAGCGG NO: ATCCGGATT 801 GCTA[T/C]GG GGACCTGGA ACGTGAACG GAGGAAAGC AGTTCCGGA GC chr 167728 T C UNC9 p.Y38 0.007 0.000 1.30 7.62 CGTTCTGTTT SEQ 6 725 3A 7H 35 97 E- [5.08- GAGAAGAGC ID 15 11.4 AAGGAAGCT NO: 41] GCCTTCGCC 802 AAT[T/C]ACC GCCTGTGGG AGGCCCTGG GCTTCGTCA TTGCCTTCG G chr 331061 A G WI2- p.K10 0.015 0.000 1.78 377. GCGCGCAGG SEQ 7 237311 3K 69 04 E- 58[5 TGCCGCGGT ID .2 52 2.37- CCGAGGGCC NO: 2722 ACGAGAAGG 803 .42] GCAA[A/G]G GCAACTACT GGACGTTCG CGGGCGGCT GCGAGTCGC TGC chr 102700 G A CYP2 p.R328 0.023 0.000 9.98 1179 CCACCCTTT SEQ 7 7 W1 H 77 02 E- .78[2 GCCCCAGGC ID 133 90.7 CGGGTGCAG NO: 9- GAGGAGCTA 804 4786 GACC[G/A]CG .53] TGCTGGGCC CTGGGCGGA CTCCCCGGC TGGAGGACC AG chr 102837 C T CYP2 p.P464 0.010 0.007 2.76 1.43 CTGCAGAGG SEQ 7 6 W1 L 78 56 E- [1.05- TACCGCCTG ID 02 1.94] CTGCCCCCG NO: CCTGGCGTC 805 AGTC[C/T]GG CCTCCCTGG ACACCACGC CCGCCCGGG CTTTTACCAT G chr 178430 C T ELEN1 p.R26 0.006 0.003 4.27 1.55 CGTGGCGGC SEQ 7 8 C 13 97 E- [1.02- CGCCACCCT ID 02 2.34] GCTGCACGC NO: TGGCGGCCT 806 GGCC[C/T]GC GCAGACTGC TGGCTGATC GAGGGCGAC AAGGGCTTC GT chr 225589 C G MAD1 p.E236 0.007 0.004 1.35 1.62 CCAGCTCAG SEQ 7 3 L1 D 35 54 E- [1.12- ACTTCATGTT ID 02 2.35] CTTCACAAT NO: CGCTGCATC 807 CTG[C/G]TCT TGCAGGGAC AGCTTCTGC TCCAGATCC TGATGGAGG C chr 418545 G A SDK1 p.P144 0.010 0.007 4.98 1.38 GCGCCACAG SEQ 7 7 4P 05 28 E- [1.01- TGAGGCAGT ID 02 1.9] TCACAGCCA NO: CCGACCTGG 808 CCCC[G/A]GA GTCCGCATA CATCTTCAG GCTGTCCGC CAAGACGAG GC chr 485690 T C RADIL p.Y56 0.009 0.006 2.59 1.47 GTGCACCTT SEQ 7 4 5C 07 17 E- [1.06- GGAGACATA ID 02 2.06] GTAGACGCA NO: CTGCTGGAA 809 GGCG[T/C]AC AGCACCACC TCCTCCAGC ACCGCCATG GCCTCCTCG CT chr 602682 G C PAIS2 p.S523 0.006 0.003 1.88 1.66 CCTGAGAGT SEQ 7 7 S 13 70 E- [1.11- CCACATGTT ID 02 2.49] CCTGCGAGC NO: CCCTGTCCC 810 CTGG[G/C]GA GCTGGCCGC ATACTCGCT GCTGCAGTG ACTGCCCGT GT chr 232218 A G NUPL2 p.Q36R 0.005 0.000 4.20 195. CCCGGTGCT SEQ 7 11 39 03 E- 45[5 AGGGGTGCA ID 29 8.48- GGAGGAGGA NO: 653. CGGCAGCAA 811 28] CCGC[A/G]GC AGCAGCCTT CAGGTGACT CTCCTCTGA ATCCTCCGC GG chr 262176 A G NFE2L3 p.I233 0.001 not 4.03 Inf GGAGAACTC SEQ 7 89 V 47 found E- ACTTCAGCA ID 06 GAATGATGA No: TGATGAAAA 812 CAAA[A/G]TA GCAGAGAAA CCTGACTGG GAGGCAGAA AAGACCACT GA chr 309219 G T FAM1 p.R696 0.006 0.000 2.24 370. GCCTGCAGC SEQ 7 12 88B S 62 02 E- 83[8 CGGGGCTCC ID 37 8.15- TGCGTGACT No: 1559 GGAGGACTG 813 .92] AGAG[G/T]CT CTTTGACTTG TACTACTAC GATGGCCTG GCCAACCAG C chr 379885 G T EPDR1 p.G79 0.007 0.000 1.62 159. CATTCCTCA SEQ 7 90 W 11 04 E- 69[6 AAACTCCAC ID 37 1.78- CTTTGAAGA NO: 412. CCAGTACTC 814 75] CATC[G/T]GG GGGCCTCAG GAGCAGATC ACCGTCCAG GAGTGGTCG GA chr 420072 T C GLI3 p.I808 0.006 0.002 4.10 2.47 CTGAGCAGA SEQ 7 01 M 86 79 E- [1.67- TGCATGGTC ID 05 3.63] TGATGTAGA NO: ACTCACCAT 815 TTCC[T/C]AT GAGAGGAGA GACCGCAGG GGCTTTAGG GGGTAGAAT GG chr 441544 G A POLD2 p.C447C 0.006 0.004 4.50 1.53 CATCGTCCT SEQ 7 53 13 02 E- [1.02- CTGCCCCGA ID 02 2.29] AGCCCGAGA NO: AGCTGATGG 816 GCTG[G/A]CA GGCCAGGCT GCGCAGGTT CACAAGGCA GGCGGTCTG CG chr 451239 C T NACA p.K61 0.005 0.000 6.20 47.3 CTTCAGCCT SEQ 7 25 D 8K 15 11 E- 7[17. GCTGGGACA ID 19 85- CAATCGTGG NO: 125. CTGCAGCCA 817 69] CAGG[C/T]TT TGGGGCTGA TGAGAGATC TGTGTCTTGT AGGGGCAGA G chr 479255 C T PKD1 p.R990 0.009 0.006 3.03 1.46 TGAAGTGGC SEQ 7 20 L1 Q 56 56 E- [1.06- AGGTTGGCC ID 02 2.02] AAGGGTCAC NO: GGGTGAAGG 818 TTCC[C/T]GT GAGAATGGT GTGGTCGTT GCATCAGGA TCTGCAGTG CC chr 505717 C A DDC p.M23 0.005 0.003 3.84 1.62 TGTCAAAGG SEQ 7 55 9I 39 34 E- [1.05- AGCAGCATG ID 02 2.49] TTGTGGTCC NO: CCAGGGTGG 819 CAAC[C/A]AT CTAGAGGGT AAAAAGCAG ACAGCCTTT TATTCCCCA GG chr 506730 C T GRB10 p.P390 0.005 0.003 3.94 1.61 AGGCGTGGC SEQ 7 32 P 39 37 E- [1.04- CCTCCTCCA ID 02 2.47] GGGCTGCGC NO: TCTGGGCCT 820 CTGC[C/T]GG ATTCTCTATC ACGCGTCCT GTTTGCCCA GAAAAATCC A chr 636803 C A ZNF73 p.G30 0.008 0.000 1.80 989. TTCATACTG SEQ 7 38 5P 3G 82 01 E- 53[1 GAGAGAGAC ID 51 35.6 CCTACAAAT NO: 4- GTGAAGAAT 821 7219 GTGG[C/A]AA .03] AGCCTTTAG CGTATCCTC AGCCCTCAT TTACCACAA GA chr 638092 C A ZNF736 p.I342I 0.014 0.000 8.84 Inf GTAAACATA SEQ 7 67 22 00 E- AGAGAATTC ID 84 ATACTGGAG NO: AGAAACCCT 822 ACAT[C/A]TG TGAAGAATG TGGCAAAGC CTTTACCCG CTCCTCAAC CC chr 871606 G A ABCB1 p.L884 0.007 0.005 4.73 1.46 CTCACCTTCC SEQ 7 45 L 60 22 E- [1.02- CAGAACCTT ID 02 2.11] CTAGTTCTTT NO: CTTATCTTTC 823 A[G/A]TGCTT GTCCAGACA ACATTTTCAT TTCAACAAC TCCTGCT chr 889655 C T ZNF80 p.T108 0.006 0.003 1.55 1.98 TTCCCTGGT SEQ 7 53 4B 61 62 35 E- [1.34- GCTTTTCCGT ID 03 2.93] CTAATAAAT NO: ATACTGGTG 824 TGA[C/T]TGA TTCAACAGA GACCCAAGA AGACCAAAT AAATCTAGA C chr 916030 C T AKAP9 p.S27L 0.005 0.002 6.73 1.92 TTTTCTTAGC SEQ 7 56 39 82 E- [1.24- TTGCCCAGT ID 03 2.96] TTCGACAAA NO: GAAAAGCTC 825 AGT[C/T]GGA TGGGCAGAG TCCTTCCAA GAAGCAGAA AAAAAAGAG A chr 978223 G A LMTK2 p.A86 0.009 0.005 9.20 1.6[1 TGTCCCGGA SEQ 7 61 2T 31 85 E- .15- GGACTGTCT ID 03 2.22] CCACCAGGA NO: CATCAGTCC 826 AGAC[G/A]CT GTGACTGTC CCGGTTGAA ATTCTCTCA ACTGATGCC AG chr 999995 T C ZCWP p.R529 0.005 0.002 1.11 1.83 CCTGGCTGG SEQ 7 51 W1 G 15 82 E- [1.17- TCAGAATCT ID 02 2.85] GAATTCCCT NO: TGGCCTTCTT 827 TCC[T/C]TCC CATTCTGGG TGCAGGAGG AGCTGTGGA TTTCCTGCCT chr 100228 G T TFR2 p.A37 0.006 0.004 2.67 1.58 ATAAGGGGA SEQ 7 655 6D 62 19 E- [1.07- GCCTAGGAG ID 02 2.34] GCTCCCCTG No: CCATTCTTG 828 GGGG[G/T]CC ACAGGGCCT TTGAGCTTC CTGGAGAGG AGGAAGGCA GA chr 100633 G A MUC12 p.G32S 0.005 0.006 9.17 0.95 CTCTCAAAT SEQ 7 938 88 17 E- [0.63- CACAGGCTC ID 01 1.44] AACAGTAAA No: CACCAGTAT 829 TGGA[G/A]GT AATACAACT TCTGCATCC ACACCCAGT TCAAGCGAC CC chr 100633 C T MUC12 p.T39I 0.000 0.000 1.85 7.1[0 GTAAACACC SEQ 7 960 25 03 E- .64- AGTATTGGA ID 01 78.3 GGTAATACA No: 51] ACTTCTGCA 830 TCCA[C/T]AC CCAGTTCAA GCGACCCTT TTACCACCTT TAGTGACTA T chr 100634 G A MUC12 p.A10 0.002 0.001 1.71 1.59 CCCAGGTGC SEQ 7 145 1T 70 70 E- [0.85- AACTGGAAC ID 01 2.96] AACACTCTT No: CCCTTCCCA 831 CTCT[G/A]CA ACCTCAGTT TTTGTTGGA GAACCTAAA ACCTCACCC AT chr 100634 C T MUC12 p.T122I 0.000 0.000 1.84 7.15 CCTAAAACC SEQ 7 209 25 03 E- [0.65- TCACCCATC ID 01 78.8 ACTTCAGCC No: 7] TCAATGGAA 832 ACAA[C/T]AG CGTTACCTG GCAGTACCA CAACAGCAG GCCTGAGTG AG chr 100634 C G MUC12 p.P153 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.92 TTCTACAGT SEQ 7 302 R 49 53 E+00 [0.22- AGCCCCAGA ID 3.85] TCACCAGAC No: AGAACACTC 833 TCAC[C/G]TG CCCGCACGA CAAGCTCAG GCGTCAGTG AAAAATCAA CC chr 100634 C T MUC12 p.P172 0.006 0.006 7.62 1.06 CTCAGGCGT SEQ 7 358 S 86 48 E- [0.72- CAGTGAAAA ID 01 1.56] ATCAACCAC NO: CTCCCACAG 834 CCGA[C/T]CA GGCCCAACG CACACAATA GCGTTCCCT GACAGTACC AC chr 100634 C A MUC12 p.T177 0.000 0.000 1.00 1.02 AAATCAACC SEQ 7 374 K 25 24 E+00 [0.13- ACCTCCCAC ID 7.75] AGCCGACCA NO: GGCCCAACG 835 CACA[C/A]AA TAGCGTTCC CTGACAGTA CCACCATGC CAGGCGTCA GT chr 100634 C T MUC12 p.P181 0.001 0.002 7.38 0.83 TCCCACAGC SEQ 7 386 L 96 37 E- [0.41- CGACCAGGC ID 01 1.69] CCAACGCAC NO: ACAATAGCG 836 TTCC[C/T]TG ACAGTACCA CCATGCCAG GCGTCAGTC AGGAATCTA CA chr 100634 T G MUC12 p.I199 0.000 0.000 5.26 1.42 ATGCCAGGC SEQ 7 440 S 25 17 E- [0.18- GTCAGTCAG ID 01 11.1 GAATCTACA No: 3] GCTTCCCAC 837 AGCA[T/G]CC CCGGCTCCA CAGACACAA CACTGTCCC CTGGCACTA CC chr 100634 G C MUC12 p.D28 0.005 0.005 1.00 0.99 GGGAGAACC SEQ 7 700 6H 39 46 E+00 [0.64- TACCACCTT ID 1.52] CCAGAGCTG NO: GCCAAGCTC 838 AAAG[G/C]A CACTTCGCC TGCACCTTCT GGTACCACA TCAGCCTTT GT chr 100634 C T MUC12 p.T315 0.000 0.000 5.28 1.42 TCTACAACT SEQ 7 788 I 25 17 E- [0.18- TATCACAGC ID 01 11.0 AGCCCGAGC NO: 7] TCAACTCCA 839 ACAA[C/T]CC ACTTTTCTGC CAGCTCCAC AACCTTGGG CCATAGTGA G chr 100634 G A MUC12 p.R348 0.013 0.015 3.63 0.87 AGCAGCCCA SEQ 7 887 H 97 95 E- [0.67- GTTGCAACT ID 01 1.14] GCAACAACA No: CCCCCACCT 840 GCCC[G/A]CT CCGCGACCT CAGGCCATG TTGAAGAAT CTACAGCCT AC chr 100635 A T MUC12 p.K39 0.000 0.000 6.69 1.3[0 GAAGAATCA SEQ 7 034 71 49 38 E- .31- GCAACTTTC ID 01 5.53] CACGGCAGC No: ACAACACAC 841 ACAA[A/T]AT CTTCAACTC CTAGCACCA CAGCTGCCC TAGCACATA CA chr 100635 C G MUC12 p.T403 0.000 0.000 6.53 Inf CACGGCAGC SEQ 7 052 S 25 00 E- [NaN- ACAACACAC ID 02 Inf] ACAAAATCT No: TCAACTCCT 842 AGCA[C/G]CA CAGCTGCCC TAGCACATA CAAGCTACC ACAGCAGCC TG chr 100635 T C MUC12 p.L416 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.89 ACCACAGCT SEQ 7 091 P 49 55 E+00 [0.21- GCCCTAGCA ID 3.73] CATACAAGC No: TACCACAGC 843 AGCC[T/C]GG GCTCAACTG AAACAACAC ACTTCCGTG ATAGCTCCA CA chr 100635 C G MUC12 p.D46 0.000 0.001 6.61 0.7[0 TCTTACCTGC SEQ 7 236 4E 98 41 E- .26- CGGCTCTAC ID 01 1.9] ACCCTCAGT No: TCTTGTTGG 844 AGA[C/G]TCG ACGCCCTCA CCCATCAGT TCAGGCTCA ATGGAAACC A chr 100635 C A MUC12 p.P469 0.001 0.001 6.90 0.71 TCTACACCC SEQ 7 250 H 23 72 E- [0.29- TCAGTTCTTG ID 01 1.75] TTGGAGACT No: CGACGCCCT 845 CAC[C/A]CAT CAGTTCAGG CTCAATGGA AACCACAGC GTTACCCGG C chr 100635 A C MUC12 p.M47 0.000 0.000 3.33 2.86 TGTTGGAGA SEQ 7 267 5L 25 09 E- [0.33- CTCGACGCC ID 01 24.4 CTCACCCAT No: 9] CAGTTCAGG 846 CTCA[A/C]TG GAAACCACA GCGTTACCC GGCAGTACC ACAAAACCA GG chr 100635 A G MUC12 p.S498 0.005 0.005 8.30 1.03 CACAAAACC SEQ 7 336 G 88 70 E- [0.68- AGGCCTCAG ID 01 1.56] TGAGAAATC No: TACCACTTTC 847 TAC[A/G]GTA GCCCCAGAT CACCAGACA CAACACACT TACCTGCCA G chr 100635 C G MUC12 p.H52 0.000 0.000 4.92 1.59 TGACAAGCT SEQ 7 419 5Q 25 15 E- [0.2- CAGGCGTCA ID 01 12.5 GTGAAGAAT No: 4] CCACCACCT 848 CCCA[C/G]AG CCGACCAGG CTCAACACA CACAACAGC ATTCCCTGG CA chr 100635 C A MUC12 p.T533 0.000 0.000 1.26 14.3 GAATCCACC SEQ 7 442 K 25 02 E- 2[0.9- ACCTCCCAC ID 01 228. AGCCGACCA No: 9] GGCTCAACA 849 CACA[C/A]AA CAGCATTCC CTGGCAGTA CCACCATGC CAGGCCTCA GT chr 100635 C G MUC12 p.L602 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.71 AACAACACT SEQ 7 648 V 49 69 E+00 [0.17- CTTACCTGA ID 2.95] CAACACCAC No: AGCCTCAGG 850 ACTC[C/G]TT GAAGCATCT ATGCCCGTC CACAGCAGC ACCAGATCG CC chr 100635 A C MUC12 p.E603 0.001 0.000 1.73 1.75 ACACTCTTA SEQ 7 652 A 47 84 E- [0.75- CCTGACAAC ID 01 4.09] ACCACAGCC No: TCAGGACTC 851 CTTG[A/C]AG CATCTATGC CCGTCCACA GCAGCACCA GATCGCCAC AC chr 100635 G A MUC12 p.S614 0.005 0.003 3.40 1.68 TCCTTGAAG SEQ 7 686 S 39 22 E- [1.08- CATCTATGC ID 02 2.61] CCGTCCACA No: GCAGCACCA 852 GATC[G/A]CC ACACACAAC ACTGTCCCC TGCCGGCTC TACAACCCG TC chr 100635 C T MUC12 p.P657 0.004 0.003 7.98 1.04 AGGCCTGCA SEQ 7 814 L 17 99 E- [0.64- CCTCCTACT ID 01 1.71] ACCACATCA No: GCCTTTGTTG 853 AGC[C/T]ATC TACAACCTC CCACGGCAG CCCGAGCTC AATTCCAAC A chr 100635 C G MUC12 p.H67 0.000 0.000 4.91 1.59 TACAACCTC SEQ 7 858 2D 25 15 E- [0.2- CCACGGCAG ID 01 12.5 CCCGAGCTC No: 5] AATTCCAAC 854 AACC[C/G]AC ATTTCTGCCC GCTCCACAA CCTCAGGCC TCGTTGAAG A chr 100635 T A MUC12 p.S674 0.000 0.000 7.03 3.58 CTCCCACGG SEQ 7 864 T 74 21 E- [1.01- CAGCCCGAG ID 02 12.6 CTCAATTCC No: 9] AACAACCCA 855 CATT[T/A]CT GCCCGCTCC ACAACCTCA GGCCTCGTT GAAGAATCT AC chr 100635 G A MUC12 p.R676 0.000 0.000 1.84 7.15 GGCAGCCCG SEQ 7 871 H 25 03 E- [0.65- AGCTCAATT ID 01 78.8 CCAACAACC No: 7] CACATTTCT 856 GCCC[G/A]CT CCACAACCT CAGGCCTCG TTGAAGAAT CTACGACCT AC chr 100635 C A MUC12 p.T679 0.004 0.003 2.87 1.28 AGCTCAATT SEQ 7 880 N 66 65 E- [0.8- CCAACAACC ID 01 2.04] CACATTTCT No: GCCCGCTCC 857 ACAA[C/A]CT CAGGCCTCG TTGAAGAAT CTACGACCT ACCACAGCA GC chr 100635 C G MUC12 p.S695 0.000 0.000 3.71 Inf CTCGTTGAA SEQ 7 928 X 25 00 E- [NaN- GAATCTACG ID 02 Inf] ACCTACCAC No: AGCAGCCCG 858 GGCT[C/G]AA CTCAAACAA TGCACTTCC CTGAAAGCG ACACAACTT CA chr 100636 C A MUC12 p.S910 0.005 0.016 8.63 0.35 AGCACCACC SEQ 7 573 Y 64 13 E- [0.23- ACCTCAGGC ID 09 0.53] CCCAGTCAG No: GAATCAACA 859 ACTT[C/A]CC ACAGCAGCT CAGGTTCAA CTGACACAG CACTGTCCC CT chr 100636 G A MUC12 p.R974 0.000 0.000 2.64 18.6 GAAGCATCT SEQ 7 765 H 49 03 E- 3[1.6 ACACGCGTC ID 02 9- CACAGCAGC No: 205. ACTGGCTCA 860 52] CCAC[G/A]CA CAACACTGT CCCCTGCCA GCTCCACAA GCCCTGGAC TT chr 100636 C G MUC12 p.T996 0.000 0.000 2.81 2.12 ACAAGCCCT SEQ 7 831 S 49 23 E- [0.46- GGACTTCAG ID 01 9.8] GGAGAATCT No: ACTGCCTTC 861 CAGA[C/G]CC ACCCAGCCT CAACTCACA CAACGCCTT CACCTCCTA GC chr 100636 T C MUC12 p.S100 0.005 0.006 3.48 0.78 TGCCTTCCA SEQ 7 860 6P 15 58 E- [0.5- GACCCACCC ID 01 1.22] AGCCTCAAC No: TCACACAAC 862 GCCT[T/C]CA CCTCCTAGC ACCGCAACA GCCCCTGTT GAAGAATCT AC chr 100637 C G MUC12 p.P113 0.006 0.000 5.46 250. CTGGGCGTC SEQ 7 251 6R 37 03 E- 3[33. GGTGAAGAA ID 26 96- TCCACCACC No: 1844 TCCCGTAGC 863 .95] CAAC[C/G]AG GTTCTACTC ACTCAACAG TGTCACCTG CCAGCACCA CC chr 100637 C G MUC12 p.T118 0.001 0.001 4.55 1.37 CACAGCACC SEQ 7 407 8S 47 07 E- [0.58- ACAACCTCA ID 01 3.23] GTTCATGGT No: GAAGAGCCT 864 ACAA[C/G]CT TCCACAGCC GGCCAGCCT CAACTCACA CAACACTGT TC chr 100637 G A MUC12 p.G12 0.008 0.011 1.98 0.79 CCAAACAGG SEQ 7 556 38S 82 19 E- [0.56- GTTACCTGC ID 01 1.11] CACACTCAC No: AACCGCAGA 865 CCTC[G/A]GT GAGGAATCA ACTACCTTTC CCAGCAGCT CAGGCTCAA C chr 100637 C T MUC12 p.P135 0.001 0.001 1.00 0.87 TTCCCTGAC SEQ 7 902 3L 47 69 E+0 [0.37- AGCACCACC ID 0 2.04] ACCTCAGAC No: CTCAGTCAG 866 GAAC[C/T]TA CAACTTCCC ACAGCAGCC AAGGCTCAA CAGAGGCAA CA chr 100638 C G MUC12 p.H15 0.006 0.000 1.36 Inf CGACAAGCT SEQ 7 584 80Q 13 00 E- CAGGCGTCA ID 29 GTGAAGAAT No: CCACCACCT 867 CCCA[C/G]AG CCGACCAGG CTCAACGCA CACAACAGC ATTCCCTGG CA chr 100638 G T MUC12 p.S161 0.001 0.000 1.36 21.2 ATGCCAGGC SEQ 7 673 0I 47 07 E- 8[6- GTCAGTCAG ID 05 75.4 GAATCTACA No: 4] GCTTCCCAC 868 AGCA[G/T]CC CAGGCTCCA CAGACACAA CATTGTCCC CTGGCAGTA CC chr 100638 G A MUC12 p.S163 0.000 0.000 2.36 14.2 ACAGCATCA SEQ 7 754 7N 49 03 E- 5[2.0 TCCCTTGGTC ID 02 1- CAGAATCTA No: 101. CTACTTTCCA 869 22] CA[G/A]CAGC CCAGGCTCC ACTGAAACA ACACTCTTA CCTGACAAC chr 100638 C T MUC12 p.S166 0.000 0.000 6.13 1.1[0 CTCCTTGAA SEQ 7 850 9L 25 22 E- .14- GCATCTACG ID 01 8.39] CCCGTCCAC No: AGCAGCACT 870 GGAT[C/T]GC CACACACAA CACTGTCCC CTGCCGGCT CTACAACAC GT chr 100638 G A MUC12 p.R168 0.001 0.000 2.33 1.7[0 TCGCCACAC SEQ 7 889 2H 23 72 E- .67- ACAACACTG ID 01 4.31] TCCCCTGCC No: GGCTCTACA 871 ACAC[G/A]TC AGGGAGAAT CTACCACCT TCCAGAGCT GGCCAAGCT CA chr 100638 G A MUC12 p.W16 0.000 0.000 1.84 7.15 TCTACAACA SEQ 7 919 92X 25 03 E- [0.65- CGTCAGGGA ID 01 78.9] GAATCTACC No: ACCTTCCAG 872 AGCT[G/A]GC CAAGCTCAA AGGACACTA TGCCTGCAC CTCCTACTA CC chr 100638 C G MUC12 p.P169 0.000 0.000 6.53 Inf ACAACACGT SEQ 7 922 3R 25 00 E- [NaN- CAGGGAGAA ID 02 Inf] TCTACCACC No: TTCCAGAGC 873 TGGC[C/G]AA GCTCAAAGG ACACTATGC CTGCACCTC CTACTACCA CA chr 100638 G A MUC12 p.S169 0.000 0.000 6.45 1.51 ACACGTCAG SEQ 7 925 4N 49 33 E- [0.35- GGAGAATCT ID 01 6.47][ ACCACCTTC No: CAGAGCTGG 874 CCAA[G/A]CT CAAAGGACA CTATGCCTG CACCTCCTA CTACCACAT CA chr 100638 C G MUC12 p.S169 0.000 0.000 3.71 Inf CGTCAGGGA SEQ 7 928 5X 25 00 E- [NaN- GAATCTACC ID 02 Inf][ ACCTTCCAG No: AGCTGGCCA 875 AGCT[C/G]AA AGGACACTA TGCCTGCAC CTCCTACTA CCACATCAG CC chr 100643 C G MUC12 p.H31 0.017 0.000 9.03 Inf CGACAAGCT SEQ 7 255 37Q 16 00 E- CAGGCGTCA ID 84 GTGAAGAAT No: CCACCACCT 876 CCCA[C/G]AG CCGACCAGG CTCAACGCA CACAACAGC ATTCCCTGG CA chr 100643 G A MUC12 p.A31 0.005 0.001 2.43 3.89 AGGCTCCAC SEQ 7 388 82T 88 52 E- [2.47- AGACACAAC ID 07 6.12][ ACTGTCCCC No: TGGCAGTAC 877 CACA[G/A]CA TCATCCCTTG GTCCAGAAT CTACTACCTT CCACAGCGG chr 100643 G A MUC12 p.R323 0.003 0.000 2.27 44.8 TCGCCACAC SEQ 7 560 9H 92 09 E- 5[16. ACAACACTG ID 15 42- TCCCCTGCC No: 122. GGCTCTACA 878 48] ACCC[G/A]TC AGGGAGAAT CTACCACCT TCCAGAGCT GGCCTAACT CG chr 100643 A G MUC12 p.T324 0.000 0.000 3.74 9.54 ACTGTCCCC SEQ 7 574 4A 49 05 E- [1.59- TGCCGGCTC ID 02 57.1 TACAACCCG No: 3] TCAGGGAGA 879 ATCT[A/G]CC ACCTTCCAG AGCTGGCCT AACTCGAAG GACACTACC CC chr 100643 C T MUC12 p.S329 0.000 0.000 6.47 1.48 TTTTCTGCCA SEQ 7 737 8L 49 33 E- [0.34- GCTCCACAA ID 01 6.34] CCTTGGGCC No: GTAGTGAGG 880 AAT[C/T]GAC AACAGTCCA CAGCAGCCC AGTTGCAAC TGCAACAAC A chr 100643 G A MUC12 p.R331 0.008 0.000 1.03 36.5 AGCAGCCCA SEQ 7 791 6H 09 22 E- 9[18. GTTGCAACT ID 28 88- GCAACAACA No: 70.9] CCCTCGCCT 881 GCCC[G/A]CT CCACAACCT CAGGCCTCG TTGAAGAAT CTACGACCT AC chr 100646 G A MUC12 p.S424 0.000 0.000 4.92 1.36 ACCATGCCA SEQ 7 590 9N 74 54 E- [0.42- GGCGTCAGT ID 01 4.44] CAGGAATCT NO: ACAGCTTCC 882 CACA[G/A]CA GCCCAGGCT CCACAGACA CAACACTGT CCCCTGGCA GT chr 100646 A C MUC12 p.N42 0.021 0.051 5.47 0.4[0 CAGCAGCCC SEQ 7 712 90H 08 65 E- .32- AGGCTCCAC ID 22 0.49] TGAAACAAC NO: ACTCTTACCT 883 GAC[A/C]ACA CCACAGCCT CAGGCCTCC TTGAAGCAT CTACACCCG T chr 100646 C G MUC12 p.P430 0.022 0.000 6.14 313. GACAACACC SEQ 7 749 2R 55 07 E- 86[9 ACAGCCTCA ID 92 9.34- GGCCTCCTT NO: 991. GAAGCATCT 884 56] ACAC[C/G]CG TCCACAGCA GCACTGGAT CGCCACACA CAACACTGT CC chr 100646 G A MUC12 p.R432 0.000 0.000 1.00 0.89 TCGCCACAC SEQ 7 809 2H 25 27 E+00 [0.12- ACAACACTG ID 6.73] TCCCCTGCC NO: GGCTCTACA 885 ACCC[G/A]TC AGGGAGAAT CTACCACCT TCCAGAGCT GGCCAAACT CG chr 100646 C T MUC12 p.R437 0.002 0.002 8.75 0.89 TCCAACAAC SEQ 7 973 7C 45 75 E- [0.47- CCACTTTTCT ID 01 1.7] GCCAGCTCC NO: ACAACATTG 886 GGC[C/T]GTA GTGAGGAAT CGACAACAG TCCACAGCA GCCCAGTTG C chr 100647 A G MUC12 p.R463 0.000 0.000 6.60 Inf CCCTGAAAG SEQ 7 735 1G 25 00 E- [NaN- CTCCACAGC ID 02 Inf] TTCAGGTCG NO: TAGTGAAGA 887 ATCA[A/G]GA ACTTCCCAC AGCAGCACA ACACACACA ATATCTTCA CC chr 100647 C G MUC12 p.P464 0.006 0.006 9.21 0.95 AAGAACTTC SEQ 7 774 4A 37 73 E- [0.64- CCACAGCAG ID 01 1.41] CACAACACA No: CACAATATC 888 TTCA[C/G]CT CCTAGCACC ACATCTGCC CTTGTTGAA GAACCTACC AG chr 100647 C G MUC12 p.S471 0.005 0.003 1.60 1.37 TTACCTGCC SEQ 7 976 1C 39 95 E- [0.88- CATTTTACTA ID 01 2.12] CCTCAGGCC No: GCATTGCAG 889 AAT[C/G]TAC CACCTTCTAT ATCTCTCCA GGCTCAATG GAAACAACA chr 100647 A G MUC12 p.Y47 0.000 0.000 2.36 14.2 TTTACTACCT SEQ 7 988 15C 49 03 E- 7[2.0 CAGGCCGCA ID 02 1- TTGCAGAAT No: 101. CTACCACCT 890 32] TCT[A/G]TAT CTCTCCAGG CTCAATGGA AACAACATT AGCCAGCAC T chr 100648 C G MUC12 p.L473 0.005 0.006 7.56 0.91 AATGGAAAC SEQ 7 044 4V 64 19 E- [0.6- AACATTAGC ID 01 1.39] CAGCACTGC No: CACAACACC 891 AGGC[C/G]TC AGTGCAAAA TCTACCATC CTTTACAGT AGCTCCAGA TC chr 100648 C G MUC12 p.S476 0.000 0.000 3.78 2.38 CCAGCATGA SEQ 7 148 8R 25 10 E- [0.29- CAAGCTCCA ID 01 19.7 GCATCAGTG No: 51] GAGAACCCA 892 CCAG[C/G]TT GTATAGCCA AGCAGAGTC AACACACAC AACAGCGTT CC chr 100648 C T MUC12 p.A47 0.000 0.000 1.84 7.12 ACCAGCTTG SEQ 7 183 80V 25 03 E- [0.65- TATAGCCAA ID 01 78.5 GCAGAGTCA No: 51] ACACACACA 893 ACAG[C/T]GT TCCCTGCCA GCACCACCA CCTCAGGCC TCAGTCAGG AA chr 100649 G T MUC12 p.C498 0.000 0.000 7.00 1.12 CACGGTGAC SEQ 7 758 8F 49 44 E- [0.27- TGCTGTGGA ID 01 4.73] TTCTATCTCT No: CCACAGGGT 894 TGT[G/T]CCA GGAAGGACA AATTTGGAA TGGAAAACA ATGCGTCTG T chr 100649 G C MUC12 p.G50 0.000 0.000 2.41 4.67 TGGAATGGA SEQ 7 815 07A 25 05 E- [0.49- AAACAATGC ID 01 44.9 GTCTGTCCC No: 4] CAAGGCTAC 895 GTTG[G/C]TT ACCAGTGCT TGTCCCCTCT GGAATCCTT CCCTGTAGG T chr 100649 C T MUC12 p.P501 0.000 0.000 2.59 0.29 CTACGTTGG SEQ 7 847 8S 25 86 E- [0.04- TTACCAGTG ID 01 2.07] CTTGTCCCCT No: CTGGAATCC 896 TTC[C/T]CTG TAGGTAATG ACCTTTTCTG AGACCTGCA GCTCTTTGC chr 100649 T C MUC12 p.V50 0.000 0.000 9.98 3[0.8 GTTGGTTAC SEQ 7 851 19A 74 24 E- 6- CAGTGCTTG ID 02 10.4 TCCCCTCTG No: 6] GAATCCTTC 897 CCTG[T/C]AG GTAATGACC TTTTCTGAG ACCTGCAGC TCTTTGCAG GC chr 100651 C T MUC12 p.P502 0.000 0.000 4.29 1.69 GCTGTCTCA SEQ 7 921 2L 74 43 E- 0[.51- CGCATACCA ID 01 5.6] TGGCCTTTTC No: CCACAGAAA 898 CCC[C/T]GGA AAAACTCAA CGCCACTTT AGGTATGAC AGTGAAAGT G chr 100656 T C MUC12 p.L520 0.000 0.000 1.29 14.0 AAGTGCACC SEQ 7 384 0P 25 02 E- 2[0.8 AAAGGAACG ID 01 8- AAGTCGCAA No: 224. ATGAACTGT 899 21] AACC[T/C]GG GCACATGTC AGCTGCAAC GCAGTGGCC CCCGCTGCC TG chr 100657 T C MUC12 p.I523 0.000 0.000 6.19 1.08 AACACACAC SEQ 7 247 1T 25 23 E- [0.14- TGGTACTGG ID 01 8.25] GGAGAGACC NO: TGTGAATTC 900 AACA[T/C]CG CCAAGAGCC TCGTGTATG GGATCGTGG GGGCTGTGA TG chr 100678 G A MUC17 p.P140 0.018 0.000 2.01 1009 GAACCACTC SEQ 7 918 7P 14 02 E- .33[2 CGTTAACAA ID 104 47.6 GTATACCTG NO: 9- TCAGCACCA 901 4112 CGCC[G/A]GT .96] AGTCAGTTC TGAGGCTAG CACCCTTTC AGCAACTCC TG chr 100681 C T MUC17 p.A21 0.012 0.000 8.18 Inf CTCCTTTAAC SEQ 7 219 74A 99 00 E- AAGTATGCC ID 78 TGTCAGCAC No: CACAGTGGT 902 GGC[C/T]AGT TCTGCAATC AGCACCCTT TCAACAACT CCTGTTGAC A chr 100681 T G MUC17 p.S220 0.0006 0.000 2.25 Inf TGTGACCAA SEQ 7 310 5A 37 00 E- TTCTACTGA ID 38 AGCCCGTTC NO: ATCTCCTAC 903 AACT[T/G]CT GAAGGTACC AGCATGCCA ACCTCAACT CCTAGTGAA GG chr 100682 T C MUC17 p.S263 0.007 0.001 4.22 4.95 TACCAGCAT SEQ 7 597 4P 11 44 E- [3.33- GCCAATCTC ID 11 7.38] AACTCCTAG NO: TGAAGTAAG 904 TACT[T/C]CA TTAACAAGT ATACTTGTC AGCACCATG CCAGTGGCC AG chr 100682 T C MUC17 p.L263 0.006 0.000 2.08 14.3 TCAACTCCT SEQ 7 613 9P 86 48 E- 2[9.0 AGTGAAGTA ID 20 5- AGTACTTCA NO: 22.6 TTAACAAGT 905 5] ATAC[T/C]TG TCAGCACCA TGCCAGTGG CCAGTTCTG AGGCTAGCA CC chr 102087 C T ORAI2 p.L168 0.011 0.006 2.80 1.82 TGCTTGGCA SEQ 7 238 L 27 23 E- [1.35- TCCTACTCTT ID 04 2.46] CCTGGCCGA No: GGTGGTGCT 906 GCT[C/T]TGC TGGATCAAG TTCCTCCCCG TGGATGCCC GGCGCCAGC chr 108112 A G PNPL p.D76 0.005 0.003 1.58 1.69 ATGGAAGTC SEQ 7 902 A8 4D 88 48 E- [1.12- CTTCATACA ID 02 2.56] TATCAGTTTT No: TAATTTTATC 907 CA[A/G]TCAT TAATTTTCTG CAGAGTTGT TTTTTCTTGA CTTAATA chr 111368 G A DOCK4 p.P191 0.009 0.005 2.33 1.74 CGCGGGCGG SEQ 7 481 7L 31 38 E- [1.25- CTCCGACGT ID 03 2.42] GACGGGGAT No: GGAGAGGCT 908 GTGA[G/A]GT AGCGGGACG GGGCGCCGC AGAGTCCGC TCGTAGACG CT chr 117232 A G CFTR p.E695 0.021 0.000 3.53 2406 ACAAAAAAA SEQ 7 305 G 32 01 E- .22[3 CAATCTTTTA ID 125 35.0 AACAGACTG No: 8- GAGAGTTTG 909 1727 GGG[A/G]AA 9.21] AAAGGAAGA ATTCTATTCT CAATCCAAT CAACTCTAT A chr 123143 G A IQUB p.P278 0.007 0.004 1.12 1.65 ACATTACCT SEQ 7 031 P 84 78 E- [1.15- GCGTATCCC ID 02 2.36] TACAAAATA No: TACTGAGTC 910 TTTC[G/A]GG AATCCTTTTA GGTACAGTT TGTGTTCCA GCATTGTGA T chr 141366 A G KIAA1 p.M23 0.006 0.004 4.89 1.52 GATGAGGAT SEQ 7 203 147 5T 37 20 E- [1.02- CTGTTCTCCA ID 02 2.26] AAGAACTTT No: ATAAACTGA 911 GAC[A/G]TGC AGCCAGCTG GGTGTGTGA TCTGAAAAA ATTGAGGGG A chr 141763 C A MGAM p.P142 0.012 0.009 2.68 1.38 GAGGTATGT SEQ 7 311 4T 99 45 E- [1.05- CTGTGTTTG ID 02 1.82] GCATTTCTA No: GGATATGAA 912 TGAA[C/A]CA TCAAGCTTC GTGAATGGG GCAGTTTCT CCAGGCTGC AG chr 141794 C T MGAM p.F154 0.006 0.002 1.83 2.75 CTGTGCTTCT SEQ 7 442 7F 13 24 E- [1.82- CGTTGCAGG ID 05 4.15] CATGATGGA No: GTTCAGCCT 913 CTT[C/T]GGC ATATCCTAT GTGAGTGTC CTTGGGATC CTCCTAAGC A chr 150069 G A REPIN1 p.K24 0.009 0.000 1.71 Inf CCTTCCAGT SEQ 7 074 8K 56 00 E- GTGCCTGTT ID 56 GTGGCAAGC No: GCTTCCGGC 914 ACAA[G/A]CC CAACTTGAT CGCTCACCG CCGCGTGCA CACGGGCGA GC chr 150738 C T ABCB8 p.G40 0.005 0.002 5.50 1.9[1 TGCCCCCTG SEQ 7 005 5G 64 97 E- .24- GCAAGATCG ID 03 2.91] TGGCCCTCG No: TGGGCCAGT 915 CTGG[C/T]GG AGGTAAGGG GAGCCCACC ACCTCTTCA CCCTCTGAC TC chr 150840 A T AGAP3 p.E431 0.005 0.002 1.04 1.85 TCATGCCCT SEQ 7 440 D 15 79 E- [1.19- GATGGGCCT ID 02 2.88] GTGGTTGCA No: GAGAGGAGA 916 AGGA[A/T]CG CTGGATACG GGCCAAGTA TGAACAGAA GCTCTTCCTG G chr 151078 C T WDR86 p.G31 0.006 0.003 8.14 1.73 GAGGGACCT SEQ 7 993 3S 86 98 E- [1.18- ACCTGGATG ID 03 2.54] CAGTTGATG No: ATGAATGTG 917 TGGC[C/T]CC GGAACACCC TCCGCAGCT CTCCAGACT GCGCGTCGA AG chr 151859 G A KMT2C p.S358 0.005 0.003 4.53 1.58 TTTTTCCTCT SEQ 7 899 8L 64 57 E- [1.04- GGGATTATA ID 02 2.41] TCAGAATAC No: AACTGAATG 918 AGC[G/A]ATT GGGTTGATC CCGGATAAC TGTGTCCAT GGGTTATAG T chr 623435 G A ERICH1 p.P306 0.027 0.000 7.40 1561 CTCCCCGGA SEQ 8 L 21 02 E- .55[3 GTCTGCACC ID 159 85.5 CTCTTCCTCC No: 8- CCAGCCCAT 919 6324 GTC[G/A]GGT .12] CTTCCTCGCT GGCGTCCGC ACCGTCCTC CTCCCTGGT chr 623519 A C ERICH1 p.I278 0.014 0.000 1.13 Inf TTTACCGTCT SEQ 8 S 71 00 E- TCCTCCCCG ID 87 GCCCGTGTC No: AGGTCTTCC 920 TCA[A/C]TGG TGTCCACAC CGTCCTCCTC CCTGGCGTC TTTAACGTC chr 623675 A C ERICH1 p.V22 0.024 0.000 1.64 Inf CTCGCTAGC SEQ 8 6G 51 00 E- GTCCGCACC ID 145 ATCTTCCTCC No: CTGGTATCTT 921 TA[A/C]CGTC TTCCTCCCCG GCCAGTGTC GGGTCTTCC TCGCTGGT chr 104660 A C RP1L1 p.D18 0.005 0.000 1.36 Inf CTTCTGACTC SEQ 8 31 59E 15 00 E- TGGCTGGGC ID 30 CTCCCCTTCA No: GCCTCCTGG 922 GC[A/C]TCCC CTTCTGCCTC TGGGGCCTC TACACCTTCT GACTCTG chr 171597 A G MTMR7 p.M52 0.005 0.002 1.04 1.85 TAGTTCTTCC SEQ 8 18 2T 15 79 E- [1.19- TCTAGCTGC ID 02 2.88] TGAGTTTCTT No: CCTTCACTG 923 CC[A/G]TTAG GTAATCTGT AACTGACTG TCGGGGCTG CATCCCCTT chr 180803 A T NAT1 p.D25 0.005 0.003 1.32 1.76 ACCCTCACC SEQ 8 08 1V 88 35 E- [1.16- CATAGGAGA ID 02 2.66] TTCAATTAT NO: AAGGACAAT 924 ACAG[A/T]TC TAATAGAGT TCAAGACTC TGAGTGAGG AAGAAATAG AA chr 234289 C G SLC25 p.T191 0.005 0.003 3.48 1.63 ACCGGTCAG SEQ 8 24 A37 T 15 17 E- [1.05- CAATCAGCT ID 02 2.53] GCATCCGGA NO: CGGTGTGGA 925 GGAC[C/G]G AGGGGTTGG GGGCCTTCT ACCGGAGCT ACACCACGC AGC chr 251746 C T DOCK5 p.T469 0.010 0.007 4.77 1.38 GACAAAGGG SEQ 8 10 M 78 86 E- [1.01- AAGAAGAAG ID 02 1.87] ACGCCAAAG NO: AATGTGGAG 926 GTGA[C/T]GA TGTCTGTGC ACGATGAGG AGGGCAAGC TCTTGGAGG TG chr 267219 C T ADRA p.R166 0.006 0.003 2.42 1.74 GTTGATCTG SEQ 8 90 1A K 506 743 E- [1.05- GCAGATGGT ID 02 2.73] CTCGTCCTC NO: GGGGGCCGG 927 CTGC[C/T]TC CAGCCGAAC AGGGGTCCA ATGGATATG ACCAGGGAG AG chr 356480 G A UNC5D p.T930 0.009 0.005 1.25 1.79 CCCTGGCCT SEQ 8 09 T 07 08 E- [1.28- GTGCCCTTG ID 03 2.5] AAGAGATTG NO: GGAGGACAC 928 ACAC[G/A]A AACTCTCAA ACATTTCAG AATCCCAGC TTGATGAAG CCG chr 367933 T C KCNU1 p.N11 0.005 0.002 8.09 2.24 TATCATCTC SEQ 8 75 29N 64 53 E- [1.46- AGATACCTT ID 04 3.43] TAGGTGACA NO: ATGCAAAAG 929 AAAA[T/C]GA AAGGAAAAC TTCAGATGA GGTTTATGA TGAGGATCC CT chr 376997 G A GPR12 p.K13 0.005 0.000 9.89 Inf CGTACCCGC SEQ 8 77 4 07K 64 00 E- TCAACGCCG ID 29 CCAGCCTAA No: ACGGCGCCC 930 CCAA[G/A]G GGGGCAAGT ACGACGACG TCACCCTGA TGGGCGCGG AGG chr 382600 C T LETM2 p.A33 0.006 0.003 4.19 1.56 AAGTTCCAA SEQ 8 50 1V 13 94 E- [1.04- CTCCATCCCT ID 02 2.34] TACATTTCTT No: TCAGATAAT 931 TG[C/T]CAAG GAAGGGGTG ACAGCATTG AGTGTATCA GAACTACAG chr 382657 C T LETM2 p.T385 0.005 0.002 2.15 1.92 GTTTTTTACG SEQ 8 55 M 205 716 E- [1.08- CCTAGACAC ID 02 3.18] TCCAGGCCA No: AATCACAAA 932 TGA[C/T]GGC CCAGAACAG CAAGGCTAG TTCAAAAGG AGCATAAAG G chr 523208 G C PXDN p.L111 0.007 0.004 4.90 1.54 TAAGCCGCG SEQ 8 32 L 8V 482 863 E- [0.97- GAGAAGAGC ID 02 2.34] CTCTGGGTC No: AGCTCAGGA 933 CTGA[G/C]AA GGTAGGAGG GTGCCCGCC ATTTAGCAG CCACGCCAA AC chr 550491 A G MRPL p.R57 0.012 0.008 4.23 1.36 GAGAAGAGG SEQ 8 31 15 G 01 88 E- [1.02- TAGAAAATG ID 02 1.81] TGGCAGAGG No: CCATAAAGG 934 AGAA[A/G]G GCAAAGAGG AACCCGGCC CCGCTTGGG CTTTGAGGG AGG chr 813991 C T ZBTB10 p.S36L 0.018 0.014 3.39 1.31 GGCGGCGGC SEQ 8 52 87 49 E- [1.03- TCCACGAAC ID 02 1.67] AATAACGCT No: GGCGGGGAG 935 GCCT[C/T]AG CTTGGCCTC CGCAGCCCC AGCCGAGAC AGCCCCCGC CG chr 919530 G A NECA p.A27 0.007 0.004 1.54 1.74 GATGTCTGT SEQ 8 77 B1 1T 16 12 E- [1.08- GATAGAAGA ID 02 2.68] GGACCTGGA NO: AGAATTCCA 936 GCTC[G/A]CT CTGAAACAC TACGTGGAG AGTGCTTCC TCCCAAAGT GG chr 947463 C G RBM1 p.E777 0.005 0.000 7.19 Inf GGCCGCCTG SEQ 8 10 2B Q 88 00 E- AAATGCTCC ID 34 TGGGGCGGT NO: CTCCGGAAG 937 TGCT[C/G]CG GGGGCGGGC GCCTGAAAT GCTCTGGGG GTGGCCGCC TG chr 978921 G A CPQ p.M24 0.008 0.004 1.07 1.75 CCTGTATTA SEQ 8 19 5I 133 667 E- [1.12- CGGTGGAAG ID 02 2.62] ATGCAGAAA NO: TGATGTCAA 938 GAAT[G/A]GC TTCTCATGG GATCAAAAT TGTCATTCA GCTAAAGAT GG chr 989912 A G MATN2 p.K35 0.006 0.000 2.40 Inf CTTTGCCAG SEQ 8 22 6R 86 00 E- TGCCATGAA ID 41 GGATTTGCT No: CTTAACCCA 939 GATA[A/G]A AAAACGTGC ACAAGTAAG TTACACACA CATGCACAC ACA chr 100832 A G VPS13 p.N29 0.008 0.005 7.31 1.65 ACTTTGTTG SEQ 8 259 B 68S 33 07 E- [1.17- ATAGAACTT ID 03 2.34] CTGCCCTGG NO: GCCCTGCTT 940 ATCA[A/G]TG AATCCAAAT GGGACCTCT GGCTATTTG AAGGAGAGA AA chr 103573 G A ODF1 p.S228 0.005 0.000 4.61 Inf TGCAGCCCC SEQ 8 042 N 64 00 E- TGCAACCCC ID 34 TGCAGCCCC NO: TGCAACCCG 941 TGCA[G/A]CC CATATGATC CTTGCAACC CGTGTTATC CCTGTGGAA GC chr 104897 G A RPVIS2 p.R175 0.005 0.003 4.50 1.59 GGATCCATG SEQ 8 928 R 64 56 E- [1.04- CTGAAGTGT ID 02 2.42] CCCGAGCAC NO: GGCATGAGA 942 GAAG[G/A]C ATAGTGATG TTTCTTTGGC AAATGCTGA TCTGGAAGA TT chr 125711 A G MTSS1 p.A62 0.009 0.006 1.95 1.52 CAGCCTCCA SEQ 8 789 A 31 16 E- [1.09- TCTGCTTACC ID 02 2.1] ACGTGTGTT NO: GGTGGCCAT 943 GTC[A/G]GCC ACTTTCTGA AAGGCGTCC AAGAAGGCA GCTGCTGCT A chr 144297 G A GPIHB p.G15 0.005 0.000 1.65 Inf GTCCAGGAC SEQ 8 314 P1 9D 39 00 E- CCAACAGGC ID 32 AAGGGGGCA NO: GGCGGCCCC 944 CGGG[G/A]C AGCTCCGAA ACTGTGGGC GCAGCCCTC CTGCTCAAC CTC chr 144874 G C SCRIB p.P145 0.013 0.000 9.10 229. AGCTTTGGC SEQ 8 555 0R 97 06 E- 41[7 CGTCCGCAC ID 60 1.81- CGGGGCGCC NO: 732. ACCTCCCAG 945 85] GGGT[G/C]GG GGGGACGCC GGGCTCTGC CTGGGGAAG GGACAGGAC GT chr 144940 C T EPPK1 p.A22 0.008 0.001 2.32 7.88 GCCTCAGGT SEQ 8 621 67A 09 03 E- [5.34- TGCGCACGG ID 17 11.6 GGTCGATGA NO: 3] CGAAGCCGG 946 TGGC[C/T]GC CTGCGCCTC CAGCAGCAC CAGGGCCGT GCCGGGCCG CA chr 144941 A T EPPK1 p.Y20 0.006 0.003 2.84 1.61 GTGTCCTCTT SEQ 8 229 65N 13 82 E- [1.07- GTGGGCGGC ID 02 2.41] ACCTCTCCT NO: GCAGCTCTC 947 GGT[A/T]CGA GACCTTCTCT TGCGTGTTC GGGTCCACA AACCGTTTC chr 144993 G A PLEC p.L359 0.008 0.006 3.15 1.46 TGCTCCTCG SEQ 8 230 1L 82 04 E- [1.05- GGGATCAGG ID 02 2.05] TCCGACTGC NO: ATCACCTCC 948 CACA[G/A]G GACATGGTG GAGCCGCCG TGGCTGCCG CCGCCGGGA ATG chr 145736 C G RECQ p.V11 0.011 0.000 2.26 1295 GTCAGCGGG SEQ 8 853 L4 96V 52 01 E- .85[1 CCACCTGCA ID 67 78.7 GGAGCTCTT NO: 5- CCGTGGCCA 949 9394 GGCC[C/G]AC .47] CAGGGCATG GAAGCTCAG GTGCAGGTA TTTTCTCCAG A chr 146157 C T ZNF16 p.S30 0.005 0.003 4.01 1.6[1 CATGTGAGA SEQ 8 265 N 39 38 E- .04- CTTTTGGTGC ID 02 2.46] TTTTTAAGG NO: CTCGAGTTC 950 TGG[C/T]TGA AGGCTTTTC CACATTCAT TACACATAT AAGGCCTCT C chr 411793 C G GLIS3 p.E360 0.008 0.004 6.65 1.8[1 GCTGGTCGA SEQ 9 3 D 133 527 E- .15- TGTGGACCT ID 03 2.7] TCTCGATGT NO: GCCGCACGA 951 GCTC[C/G]TC CTGCTGGTC GTACAGGGC GCTGCAGTC GATCCAGCG GC chr 601362 C T RANB p.D66 0.006 0.002 5.81 2.36 CTCTGCTGG SEQ 9 4 P6 2N 831 903 E- [1.44- TCTCCAAGA ID 04 3.68] TTTACAAAT NO: TGCCAGCCA 952 TCAT[C/T]GT CACTCATAT TTTCCACATC CTGTGTGTCT AAGAGAGCA chr 154230 C T SNAP p.H43 0.013 0.000 1.53 117. TCCAGAGTA SEQ 9 04 C3 Y 73 12 E- 22[5 TGAGCTTCC ID 64 9.77- CGAGCTAAA NO: 229. TACGCGCGC 953 91] TTTC[C/T]AT GTGGGCGCC TTTGGGGAG CTGTGGCGG GGCCGTCTG CG chr 190503 G A RRAG p.Q22 0.007 0.004 1.55 1.64 CTACATTCTT SEQ 9 23 A 2Q 11 34 E- [1.13- GGTTATTTCC ID 02 2.39] CACTACCAG NO: TGCAAAGAG 954 CA[G/A]CGCG ACGTCCACC GGTTTGAGA AGATCAGCA ACATCATCA chr 337948 A C PRSS3 p.K12 0.007 0.004 6.12 1.78 GACAGGATG SEQ 9 24 T 35 13 E- [1.22- CACATGAGA ID 03 2.62] GAGACAAGT NO: GGCTTCACA 955 TTGA[A/C]GA AGGGGAGGA GTGCGCCAT TGGTTTTCCA TCCTCCAGA T chr 337967 G T PRSS3 p.G10 0.005 0.000 3.09 Inf CCCTACCAG SEQ 9 46 6V 15 00 E- GTGTCCCTG ID 31 AATTCTGGC No: TCCCACTTCT 956 GCG[G/T]TGG CTCCCTCATC AGCGAACAG TGGGTGGTA TCAGCAGCT chr 356741 G A CA9 p.G79 0.014 0.001 1.18 10.6 GCCCAGTGA SEQ 9 91 R 46 37 E- 7[7.8 AGAGGATTC ID 35 9- ACCCAGAGA NO: 14.4 GGAGGATCC 957 3] ACCC[G/A]GA GAGGAGGAT CTACCTGGA GAGGAGGAT CTACCTGGA GA chr 358100 G A SPAG8 p.F433 0.005 0.003 2.25 1.67 GAGACAAGG SEQ 9 94 F 88 53 E- [1.1- GTACTGGTG ID 02 2.52] TTGAGAAGC NO: TGCAGTTCTT 958 CCG[G/A]AAT GGTGTGTCC AATGTCCTG ATGTTACTG ACACCCTGG A chr 391092 C T CNTN p.A76 0.022 0.000 4.31 1284 GGCCCCAGT SEQ 9 17 AP3 9T 55 02 E- .01[3 GTATAAGCT ID 131 16.2 GCTTCGGAA NO: 4- TGTGGTCGG 959 5213 CCTG[C/T]GT .39] CTGTCATCA CAATCTGAG TGACTGGCA GGTGCTCCT TT chr 776135 A G C9orf41 p.D29 0.009 0.006 3.33 1.44 TTGATTTGG SEQ 9 39 5D 80 81 E- [1.05- ACTTACTGC ID 02 1.99] ATTCTGAAT NO: AAATCTCTT 960 GAAA[A/G]TC TCCTGCTGTC ATAGAAAAG TTAGAACCA GGAGGAAGA C chr 845625 A G SPATA p.K77 0.012 0.000 2.19 Inf GTGGGGAAT SEQ 9 04 31D3 9R 25 00 E- TATCAGGGA ID 72 TGCAGCCAG No: GAGACTGCC 961 CCAA[A/G]A AACCATCTC TTGCATGAT CCGGAGACA TCTTCAGAG GAG chr 941725 C T NFIL3 p.M17 0.005 0.003 3.57 1.6[1 GTGGAGAGT SEQ 9 07 0I 88 69 E- .06- GTTTAATGA ID 02 2.41] CAGAAATAC NO: AACTACTTG 962 ACAC[C/T]AT CGAGGGTTC GTGCTCGTC CACAAATGA ACTCACATT GG chr 960518 G A WNK2 p.A16 0.005 0.000 1.02 56.0 GCGGGGGGG SEQ 9 69 48A 39 10 E- 7[23. ACCTGGCCC ID 22 94- TGCCCCCAG NO: 131. TGCCTAAGG 963 32] AGGC[G/A]GT CTCAGGGCG TGTCCAGCT GCCCCAGCC CTTGGTGAG TA chr 960814 C T C9orf1 p.R130 0.010 0.007 2.68 1.43 TGCCTGTGA SEQ 9 33 29 H 54 41 E- [1.05- ATCCCTTCCT ID 02 1.94] TGTACATGG NO: TGGTCAGTG 964 GCA[C/T]GGA ATCCCCAAT AGATTGTAT ATCTGAAGG AGAAAAATA A chr 964390 C A PHF2 p.T992 0.022 0.001 8.06 20.0 CCTCCACCA SEQ 9 19 T 30 14 E- 2[14. CGCCAGCCT ID 65 5- CTACCACCC NO: 27.6 CGGCCTCCA 965 51] CCAC[C/A]CC GGCCTCCAC CAGCACGGC CAGCAGCCA GGCCTCGCA GG chr 970809 A C NUTA1 p.S689 0.007 0.000 5.91 16.6 AAGAGAGGT SEQ 9 53 2F A 84 47 E- 9[10. CGCTTCTTG ID 24 5- GACTTGCTG No: 26.5 GCAGGAGAA 966 2] GGTG[A/C]TG GGCTGAGGC CTCTTTTCTG AGCAGATGG AGACTGAAG A chr 106889 C T SMC2 p.S867 0.005 0.003 3.42 1.63 CCTCACCAC SEQ 9 571 L 15 16 E- [1.05- ATATTTTCTT ID 02 2.54] TAATTTTTTT No: GTTTTAGGA 967 GT[C/T]AGTA AATAAAGCT CAAGAAGAG GTGACCAAG CAAAAAGAG chr 113562 T C MUSK p.V55 0.006 0.004 2.64 1.59 GAAACTGAG SEQ 9 589 8A 62 17 E- [1.08- ACTAACAGG ID 02 2.35] GATGGTCTT No: TTGGTTCCA 968 GGAG[T/C]GT GTGCTGTCG GGAAGCCAA TGTGCCTGC TCTTTGAAT AC chr 117170 G C DFNB p.P562 0.119 0.117 6.55 1.02 AACCAAAGG SEQ 9 241 31 A 36 07 E- [0.93- GCCAGCCAG ID 01 1.13] GGCCTTACC No: ACGGACACA 969 TCTG[G/C]GA GGGCGTTGA TATTGCCCT GGACAGCCT CGCCAGTTT CC chr 127623 G A RPL35 p.R32 0.011 0.008 3.12 1.39 TAGAGAGCT SEQ 9 742 R 76 52 E- [1.03- TGGAGGCCG ID 02 1.85] CACCGCCTG No: TCACTTTGG 970 CGAC[G/A]CG CAGCTGGGA CAGCTCCAC CTTCAGGTC GTCCAGCTG TT chr 131094 G C COQ4 p.E161 0.012 0.008 1.55 1.44 ATGATGAGG SEQ 9 512 D 25 51 E- [1.09- AGCTAGCGT ID 02 1.92] ATGTGATTC No: AGCGGTACC 971 GGGA[G/C]GT GCACGACAT GCTTCACAC CCTGCTGGG GATGCCCAC CA chr 131258 G C ODF2 p.Q61 0.007 0.000 2.84 Inf TAAACCAGT SEQ 9 331 7H 84 00 E- CTGTGTTCCT ID 47 GTCATTTTA NO: GATCGAACA 972 CCA[G/C]GGG GACAAGCTG GAGATGGCG AGAGAGAAA CATCAGGCT T chr 132630 G A USP20 p.S288 0.005 0.003 9.34 1.85 ACCGGAGCC SEQ 9 457 S 64 05 E- [1.21- CATCAGAAG ID 03 2.83] ATGAGTTCT NO: TGTCCTGTG 973 ACTC[G/A]AG CAGTGACCG GGGTGAGGG TGACGGGCA GGGGCGTGG CG chr 134353 G A PRRC2 p.E147 0.005 0.003 2.96 1.71 CTGGTTAAC SEQ 9 141 B 3K 15 03 E- [1.1- AAGATCCTC ID 02 2.65] TTTCCCTTAC NO: AGATCCCCA 974 GAC[G/A]AG GCCTTGCCT GGAGGTCTT AGTGGCTGC AGCAGTGGG AG chr 135140 A G SETX p.I254 0.008 0.005 2.68 1.5[1 GGGTTGTGG SEQ 9 020 7T 58 72 E- .07- ATCCCAAAG ID 02 2.12] GAATATTCC NO: TCCTTTGACC 975 TCA[A/G]TGC CCATCCTCTT CAGCAGTCG TGGGTCCTG AAGTTGGTC chr 136419 G A ADAM p.G42 0.023 0.000 1.28 Inf CGAGCAGGC SEQ 9 800 TSL2 1S 28 00 E- CGGCGGCGG ID 12 GGCCTGCGA NO: GGGGCCCCC 976 CAGG[G/A]G CAAGGGCTT CCGAGGTAA CCAGGAGGA GGGAGGCAT GAG chr 137309 G A RXRA p.M25 0.006 0.003 2.76 1.62 CCGTGGAGC SEQ 9 155 41 13 79 E- [1.08- CCAAGACCG ID 02 2.43] AGACCTACG NO: TGGAGGCAA 977 ACAT[G/A]GG GCTGAACCC CAGCTCGGT GAGTTGCAG CCTGTGCAG GG chr 139333 G C INPP5 p.G12 0.007 0.000 1.78 447. TCAGGCAGG SEQ 9 512 E 0G 11 02 E- 13[6 GCGGGGAGC ID 34 0.89- AGCTGTGGG No: 3283 CGGGGGCCC 978 .17] CGGG[G/C]CC CTCGCTCTG CACTGAGCC CCTGGAGGG ACTGGTCCC AT chr 139701 G T CCDC p.M45 0.005 0.003 4.82 1.63 GCGAGGGGA SEQ 9 301 183 71 856 603 E- [0.95- AGCTCACGT ID 02 2.61] ACCTGGCTG No: ACAGAGTGC 979 AGAT[G/T]GT GTCCAGGAC CGAGGAGGT AGCCCCGGG CTGGGAGGA AC chr 139752 A T NIAMD p.T771 0.009 0.006 4.61 1.42 CTCGGGCCA SEQ 9 023 C4 S 07 39 E- [1.02- TGCTGCCTG ID 02 1.98] GGGCCCCCC No: AACAGACCA 980 TACC[A/T]CT GAGACAGCC CAAGGTATG GGGGCCTGG CAGGGGCAG GG chr 140008 G A DPP7 p.Q38 0.005 0.000 4.86 Inf TTGTTGCCG SEQ 9 984 X 15 00 E- AAGCGCTCG ID 28 AAGTTGAAG No: TGGTCCAGA 981 CGCT[G/A]CT GGAAGAAGC GCTCCTGGA AGCCGGGGT CCGGGGCCC TG chr 140120 G T CYSRT1 p.A14 0.011 0.000 2.82 Inf AGCGCCAGG SEQ 9 397 8A 03 00 E- CCGGACTGA ID 52 CCTACGCTG No: GCCCTCCGC 982 CCGC[G/T]GG GCGCGGGGA TGACATCGC CCACCACTG CTGCTGCTG CC chr 986397 C CT SHRO p.L676 0.005 0.000 2.57 61.9 CTGGAGGGC SEQ X 4 OM2 fs 89 10 E- [12.5- CGGGTTGGG ID 07 307. AGGTGGCAC No: 11] CCAGGAAGG 983 ACCC[C/CT]T CGCTGGCAC CTATAAAGA CCACCTGAA AGAGGCCCA AGC chr 100856 C T WWC3 p.H52 0.006 0.003 4.13 1.56 GGGACGAAG SEQ X 59 0H 13 94 E- [1.03- ACTTACCAG ID 02 2.36] GCATGGCGG NO: CCCTTCAGC 984 CACA[C/T]GG GGTCCCCGG GGATGGGGA AGGGCCGCA CGAGCGAGG AC chr 349618 G A FM4 p.P297 0.005 0.000 6.33 473. GCCCGGAGC SEQ X 39 7B P 88 01 E- 89[6 CTCCCGAGA ID 31 4.09- CTCGCGTAT NO: 3503 CTCATCTCC 985 .83] ACCC[G/A]GA GCCTCCTGA GACTGGAGT GTCCCATCT CCGCCCAGA GC chr 370279 C G FAM4 p.D49 0.006 0.000 5.71 Inf CAGAGAAGG SEQ X 59 7C 2E 86 00 E- ACGTATCTC ID 37 ATCTCCGCC NO: CAGAGCCTC 986 CCGA[C/G]AC TGGAGTGTC CCATCTCTG CCCAGAGCC CCCCAAGAC AC chr 370287 C T FAM4 p.R763 0.008 0.000 2.98 692. TCTCCGCCC SEQ X 70 7C C 58 01 E- 67[9 AGAGCCTCT ID 45 4.87- TGAGACTCG No: 5057 CGTATCTCA 987 .22] TCTC[C/T]GC CCGGAGCCT CCTGAGACT GGAGTGTCC CATCTCCAC CC chr 436286 G A MAOB p.T426 0.008 0.000 6.54 Inf CAGCCCCCT SEQ X 23 T 82 00 E- CCATGTAGC ID 48 CGCTCCAGT NO: GTGTGGCAG 988 TCTC[G/A]GT GCCTGCAAA GTAAATCCT GTCCACTGG CTGGCGTAG AA chr 474267 C T ARAF p.A33 0.010 0.007 3.68 1.42 TTGGCACCG SEQ X 57 7A 05 11 E- [1.03- TGTTTCGAG ID 02 1.95] GGCGGTGGC NO: ATGGCGATG 989 TGGC[C/T]GT GAAGGTGCT CAAGGTGTC CCAGCCCAC AGCTGAGCA GG chr 486648 C T HDAC p.Y17 0.005 0.002 1.98 2.04 ACATGAATG SEQ X 50 6 1Y 88 90 E- [1.34- AGGGAGAAC ID 03 3.1] TCCGTGTCCT No: AGCAGACAC 990 CTA[C/T]GAC TCAGTTTATC TGCATCCGG TATGGATGA GAACTCTGC chr 491059 G A CCDC p.D54 0.008 0.005 3.56 1.48 GCAGCCCAC SEQ X 70 22 6N 58 80 E- [1.05- TGATACCTTT ID 02 2.09] GAGGTCCCT No: GTGTCTGGT 991 CAG[G/A]ATG CCAAGAAGG ACGATGCTG TTCGGAAGG CCTATAAGT A chr 494559 C T PAGE1 p.G56 0.008 0.005 2.89 1.49 TTGGCTGAA SEQ X 76 G 82 92 E- [1.06- CCAGTTCCT ID 02 2.1] GGCTATCAG No: CTTCAGGCT 992 CCTG[C/T]CC TTAAAGATA AAACAAAAT TATCATTTTA AGCAGCAAC A chr 531153 G A TSPYL2 p.E607 0.009 0.006 2.37 1.5[1 AAGGCAGCG SEQ X 95 E 07 06 E- .07- ATGATGACG ID 02 2.1] ACAGAGACA No: TTGAGTACT 993 ATGA[G/A]A AAGTTATTG AAGACTTTG ACAAGGATC AGGCTGACT ACG chr 562918 A G KLF8 p.I108 0.009 0.006 4.00 1.43 CAAGGCTCC SEQ X 53 V 56 71 E- [1.03- TCTCCAGCC ID 02 1.98] TGCTAGCAT No: GCTACAAGC 994 TCCA[A/G]TA CGTCCCCCC AAGCCACAG TCTTCTCCCC AGACCCTTG T chr 708237 G C ACRC p.K21 0.005 0.000 1.40 33.7 CCGACGACA SEQ X 81 8N 88 18 E- 6[17. ACAGTGATG ID 22 45- ATTCGGATG No: 65.3 TTCCCGACG 995 11] ACAA[G/C]A GTGATGATT CGGATGTTC CCGACGACA GCAGTGATG ATT chr 738116 G A RLIM p.S501 0.009 0.000 1.61 Inf ATGTCGACC SEQ X 48 L 80 00 E- CTCTCGCCT ID 52 GGCACCTGA NO: TGAGCCTGA 996 TGAT[G/A]AG CTTCCTTCAT TACTGCCTTC AAATAAATC TGAGCTAGT chr 738116 A G RLIM p.S485 0.010 0.000 6.36 46.1 CTTCATTACT SEQ X 95 S 29 23 E- 6[26. GCCTTCAAA ID 41 25- TAAATCTGA No: 81.1 GCTAGTTTCT 997 6] GA[A/G]CTTT CACCACCGG AACTGGAAC TAGGACTGG AACTGGAAC chr 738117 C T RLIM p.S453 0.010 0.000 2.96 825. ACTCGAACT SEQ X 92 N 29 01 E- 58[1 GGAACTGGA ID 54 13.6- ACTCGAACT No: 5999 GGAACCAGA 998 .93] ACTA[C/T]TA CCACCACCA GAACCTCCT CTTCCACTCC GTGACTCTG C chr 100507 G T DRP2 p.L571 0.011 0.008 3.77 1.38 CCTGCTTCTT SEQ X 675 L 76 56 E- [1.03- GACAGGCAG ID 02 1.85] GGCCAGCAA No: AGGCAATAA 999 GCT[G/T]CAC TACCCCATC ATGGAGTAT TACACACCG GTATGAAGC C chr 100524 C T TAF7L p.R372 0.011 0.007 2.26 1.44 TGTGGGCCA SEQ X 197 H 03 69 E- [1.06- CGCCAATGG ID 02 1.95] CTCTCCTCAC No: TTCTTCAGA 1000 AAA[C/T]GCT GCAACTGTT CCTGTAGGG AAATGAGCT GTAGGGAGA G chr 100745 C G ARMC p.A77 0.008 0.000 8.99 Inf CAGGGTGAG SEQ X 885 X4 0G 33 00 E- GTCTTGCCT ID 34 GGTGCCAAA NO: AATAAGGTC 1001 AAGG[C/G]C AATCTTAAT GCTGTGTCT AAGGCAGAA GCTGGGATG GGT chr 100746 G C ARMC p.Q94 0.009 0.000 1.04 Inf CTAAGGCAG SEQ X 423 X4 9H 31 00 E- AGGCTGGGG ID 38 CAGGCATAA NO: TGGGCTCTG 1002 TCCA[G/C]GT CCAGGTTGT GGCCAGTTT TCAGGGTGA GGTCTTGCC TG chr 101971 C T ARMC p.S721 0.011 0.007 5.08 1.58 TGACTATTG SEQ X 960 X5- S 52 33 E- [1.17- ACTATCACA ID GPRA 03 2.13] CACTGATTG NO: SP2 CCAACTATA 1003 TGTC[C/T]GG GTTTCTCTCC TTATTAACC ACAGCCAAT GCGAGAACG A chr 102754 C T RAB40 p.E257 0.008 0.001 5.24 4.28 GTGCAGTTT SEQ X 916 A K 33 96 E- [2.95- TTGGGTGGG ID 11 6.22] CTCTGGGGT NO: GGGCAGACG 1004 ATCT[C/T]CA CTTTGCAGA GGCTGCTCT TGTGAGTGG AGCTGGTGG TG chr 114425 G A RBA1X p.R514 0.007 0.000 5.32 323. AGCGACCGC SEQ X 545 L3 Q 60 02 E- 05[4 TACGGAGTA ID 32 4.09- GGAGGCCAC NO: 2367 TATGAGGAG 1005 .01] AACC[G/A]A GGCCACTCT CTGGATGCC AACAGCGGA GGCCGTTCA CCC chr 114426 C T RBA1X p.Y84 0.012 0.000 4.17 101. ACGCCTACA SEQ X 551 L3 9Y 01 12 E- 99[4 GTGGGGGCC ID 46 0.62- GTGACAGTT NO: 256. CCAGCAACA 1006 12] GTTA[C/T]GA CCGGAGCCA CCGCTATGG AGGAGGAGG CCACTACGA AG chr 120008 G C CT47B1 p.P182 0.012 0.000 1.16 1046 CGACGCAGC SEQ X 980 R 99 01 E- .3[14 CTCCTGGAT ID 68 4.66- CAGGCCGAG NO: 7567 GCCCTCGCC 1007 .63] TTCT[G/C]GG GCTGCAGCC CCTGCACCC AGCCTCTGG GACAGCAGC AG chr 124455 G C LOC10 p.K43 0.017 0.000 8.76 Inf ACAGCCACA SEQ X 258 012952 0N 40 00 E- GCATGAAGA ID 0 72 AAGATCCAG NO: TGATGCCCC 1008 AGAA[G/C]AT GGTCCCCCT GGGGGACAG CAACAGCCA CAGTCTGAA GA chr 140993 A G MAGE p.Q18 0.013 0.002 4.36 6.11 CTTTAGTGA SEQ X 751 C1 7Q 24 19 E- [3.92- GTATTTTCCA ID 16 9.52] GAGTTCCCC NO: TGAGAGTAC 1009 TCA[A/G]AGT CCTTTTGAG GGTTTTCCCC AGTCTCCAC TCCAGATTC chr 140994 T A MAGE p.C501 0.014 0.000 9.16 Inf CTCCTCCACT SEQ X 691 C1 S 71 00 E- TTATTGAGT ID 80 CTTTTCCAG No: AGTTCCCCT 1010 GAG[T/A]GTA CTCAAAGTA CTTTTGAGG GTTTTCCCCA GTCTCCTCT chr 149100 C T CXorf4 p.G15 0.009 0.005 1.69 1.54 AACATTCCT SEQ X 775 0B 5E 07 92 E- [1.1- TTCAGGAGC ID 02 2.15] CCACACTTG NO: TCACACTTC 1011 ATGC[C/T]CC AAAGGGATC AGGTGCTCT GGGATGTCT ACCTGGAAT AC chr 150908 G T CNGA2 p.G11 0.010 0.007 4.45 1.38 GGGCCTGAA SEQ X 168 3V 54 65 E- [1.01- CTCCAGACT ID 02 1.88] GTGACCACA NO: CAGGAGGGG 1012 GATG[G/T]CA AAGGCGACA AGGATGGCG AGGACAAAG GCACCAAGT AC chr 153295 C T MECP2 p.K44 0.018 0.000 3.45 Inf TGGCGGCGG SEQ X 986 3K 87 00 E- TGGCAACCG ID 102 CGGGCTGAG NO: TCTTAGCTG 1013 GCTC[C/T]TT GGGGCAGCC GTCGCTCTC CAGTGAGCC TCCTCTGGG CA TABLE 2 Variants associated with infertility symptom of endometriosis Alter- nate Amino Chronic Refer- Allele/ Acid Pelvic Infer- OR ence Minor po- Pain tility [L95- Context SEQ ID Chr Position Allele Allele Gene sition MAF MAF p value U95] Sequence NO chr11 5444040 C T OR51Q1 p.L204F 0.0089 0.02899 2.59E- 0.30 CTGTGCTG SEQ ID 4 02 ACATCAGG NO: 129 CTCAACAG CTGGTATG GATTTGCT [C/T]TTGCC TTGCTCAT TATTATCG TGGATCCT CTGCTCAT TGT chr19 53793162 C T BIRC8 p.A156T 0.0000 0.00725 1.16E- 0.00 GAAGTCTG SEQ ID 0 03 ATTCAATT NO: 531 CATTTTCT GTAGTGTC TTTCTGAG [C/T]GCTCA CTAGATCT GCAACAAG AACCTCAA GCGTTTTA TAG chr2 238973062 A G SCLY p.K60E 0.0000 0.00730 1.11E- 0.00 AACGACTC SEQ ID 0 03 CCCTGGAG NO: 592 CCAGAAGT TATCCAGG CCATGACC [A/G]AGGC CATGTGGG AAGCCTGG GGAAATCC CAGCAGCC CGTA chr22 50315363 C A CRELD2 p.D182E 0.0282 0.06159 4.03E- 0.44 ACATGGGG SEQ ID 0 03 TACCAGGG NO: 637 CCCGCTGT GCACTGAC TGCATGGA [C/A]GGCT ACTTCAGC TCGCTCCG GAACGAG ACCCACAG CATCT chr4 81967240 C T BHP3 p.T222M 0.0000 0.00725 1.16E- 0.00 GCCAAAGA SEQ ID 0 03 AAATGAAG NO: 706 AGTTCCTC ATAGGATT TAACATTA [C/T]GTCCA AGGGACGC CAGCTGCC AAAGAGG AGGTTACC TTTT TABLE 3 Variants associated with pelvic pain symptom of endometriosis Alter- nate Amino Chronic Refer- Allele/ Acid Pelvic Infer- OR ence Minor po- Pain tility p [L95- Context SEQ ID Chr Position Allele Allele Gene sition MAF MAF value U95] Sequence NO chr2 141232800 C T LRP1B p.A3178T 0. 0.01087 7.31E- 0.00 GCCCAG SEQ ID 00000 05 TAGAGT NO: 577 CTACGA TTAACA TAATCT ATTGTT AGTG[C/ T]CATA GGTCTA GAAATC TTGGTT TCTATG ACAACA CTCTGA chr6 56033094 G A COL21L2A1 p.T343M 0. 0.11590 2.12E- 0.52 TACTAA SEQ ID 06389 03 GAGACG NO: 786 AATTTG GTGCCA GCCTTC ATCAAA CAAC[G/ A]TCTA CAAAAA GAAAGT GTGGAA GATTCA TAAATA AAGCCC chr6 85473758 C T TBX18 p.G48R 0. 0.57660 2.41E- 0.68 GCGCCG SEQ ID 48050 03 CCGCCG NO: 789 CGGCTG CAGCCT CCGTCG TCCACG GCCC[C/ T]CGCC GCCTCT TCGGCG CCCAGT TTTCGC CGCTTC TTCTGA chr9 117170241 G C DFNB31 p.P562A 0. 0.16060 4.01E- 0.59 AACCAA SEQ ID 10070 03 AGGGCC NO: 969 AGCCAG GGCCTT ACCACG GACACA TCTG[G/ C]GAGG GCGTTG ATATTG CCCTGG ACAGCC TCGCCA GTTTCC TABLE 4 Additional variants associated with endometriosis. Endo- L95 U95 metri- Local (lower (upper osis pop- OR limit limit patient ulation gnomAD (C OR 95% con- 95% Base SEQ Fre- Control Fre- hisq (odds fidence confidence Pair Minor Major ID quency Frequency quency test) Ratio) Interval) Interval) CHR SNP Position Allele Allele Context Sequence NO: 0.3055 0.28 0.2883 4.49E- 1.13 1.07 1.20 1 rs34108989 16,082, C T GCATCAGGTATTTTTACCCACATT SEQ 05 127 TACCCCACCAGATTCT[T/C]GCTA ID TGAAGCCACAAGGGACAAACCTG NO: GGTTGGCAACCCC 1014 0.1844 0.1494 0.1591 1.75E- 1.29 1.20 1.38 1 rs2235529 22,450, T C AAGCATCTGTGCCCCTAAAGCTG SEQ 12 487 ATGGCGGCTCCTCCAGC[C/T]TTC ID TCTACCTGGTTCTGGTGTCCAGCC No: CTTGGACTCCAGG 1015 0.2294 0.1992 0.2086 5.07E- 1.20 1.12 1.28 1 rs12042083 22,472, A G CATGAGCCACCTTGCCTGGCCGG SEQ 08 732 AAATTCTTAATGAGAAA[G/A]TCT ID CTTGGAGGAAATGCTCTTCTAAC NO: TTTCAAGAACAGCC 1016 0.4374 0.4042 0.4205 1.07E- 1.15 1.09 1.21 1 rs4623666 22,480, G A ATCTTCAGCCTCCTACCAGCAAC SEQ 06 312 TATGCACACAGAAGCCC[A/G]GC ID CGGTATCCCCACAGAGGCAGACG NO: CCCCGGCACTGCCTT 1017 0.1126 0.09637 0.09915 9.43E- 1.19 1.09 1.30 1 rs12061124 97,989, T C AGTTGAAACTCACAAACTGCAGG SEQ 05 751 AATATAGTCATTGGGGT[C/T]CCT ID TAGATGCAGAAAAGAAAATTAAC No: TACAGCGAGTTATG 1018 0.3216 0.3487 0.3388 3.65E- 0.89 0.84 0.94 2 rs2349415 49,247, T C AAAACTTTATTCATAAAAACAGG SEQ 05 832 TGTCAGGCTGGATTTGA[T/C]CCA ID TTGGCTGTAGTTCAGTGACACTG NO: TCCTAGATCGTGGA 1019 0. 0.07747 0.08625 1.24E- 1.26 1.15 1.38 2 rs17025778 98,637, G A TCCGGGGAACACGATTCCACCCA SEQ 09559 06 504 TCACTGGGTGCTAGGTC[A/G]AGG ID GTTCAGTTCTATGTCCTTCAGCAC NO: TTATGAAACTGAG 1020 0.1044 0.08778 0.09062 2.55E- 1.21 1.11 1.32 2 rs17026292 98,677, A G GGATGAATGGAAACTTGATTCTC SEQ 05 164 TTAATACAGTCCACTTG[G/A]GCT ID CCATTTGTCTTCACAGCAACCATT NO: TGCTGGATTTATT 1021 0.4036 0.3744 0.3827 1.47E- 1.13 1.07 1.20 2 rs755503 135, A G TATGCTTAGGAAATATGTATATA SEQ 05 144, TGGGATATCTCAAAATA[A/G]GG ID 45 AAAAGTTGGAGTGAAGATTAAAA No: TAGAAAATAACAAAA 1022 0.1662 0.188 0.1822 4.81E- 0.86 0.80 0.93 2 rs10177996 219, C T CTATGTGAATGTGACTGAAACAT SEQ 05 746, ATCTGTGGGAGTGGGCT[T/C]GTG ID 561 GGGAACCCTGTGTGTATGGGCAT NO: CTATTCCTGGGGAT 1023 0.2852 0.259 0.263 1.47E- 1.14 1.08 1.21 2 rs388208 225,938, T C ACAGTTAATATTGACTGCTTTGTT SEQ 05 996 CATTGATACATTCCCT[T/C]GACC ID TAGACCATTGCTGGGCACATAGT NO: AGGCTCTCAGTAA 1024 0.1818 0.1613 0.1695 5.28E- 1.16 1.08001 1.2425 3 rs6792001 6,106, A G CTATTGATTTTTGAGGTAGATATT SEQ 05 251 GATGCAATTAGAGATA[A/G]GCTT ID TAGGAAGATCTTCCTGGAAGTGG NO: TATATAAATAGTT 1025 0.2338 0.258 0.2584 6.26E- 0.88 0.82 0.94 3 rs6777088 8,786, G A CACCCTTCAGATCATAAAACAAT SEQ 05 487 AGAATTTGAGAGCTGCG[A/G]CT ID ATAGCACTGCCACTAAGTCACTG NO: TTGGCTTTAAGCAAG 1026 0.1513 0.1744 0.1682 1.05E- 0.84 0.78 0.91 3 rs4293672 25,913, T C AATTGACACACTACTGAAAAGAA SEQ 05 415 AAGAGAATTAGAACAAC[T/C]TG ID CCTGGAGTTAAAGTCCCTTAGTT NO: AATGGATAAGTCACC 1027 0.1244 0.146 0.1344 9.21E- 0.83 0.77 0.90 3 rs16843225 100,801, G T TCTGGTGTCATTAAGGAAGCAGG SEQ 06 257 TTACAGGCCAGCATATC[T/G]TCA ID AATAGCTACACAGGTGTTAGAAC NO: TGCATGGTCTTATA 1028 0.1405 0.1226 0.126 8.98E- 1.17 1.08 1.27 3 rs4680277 156,245, A G GTGCTAATTATCCAGAATCAGCT SEQ 05 781 GCAGTTGCTACCATGGA[A/G]GTA ID ACCAGCTCTGCCCAGTGGGTTCT NO: CCTGTGCCCTACAG 1029 0.1399 0.1208 0.1259 2.78E- 1.18 1.09 1.28 3 rs6795731 156, T C TAGTGAAGAAAACATCATGCTGG SEQ 05 262, TTATGTTACCATTTTTC[C/T]CAGG ID 460 CAACCAGGGTTATGGAAGAAAG NO: GACTCATTAATGGC 1030 0.2683 0.2988 0.288 1.43E- 0.86 0.81 0.92 4 rs12505096 56,006, A C GATGTGGTCATATGAAGGCTTGA SEQ 06 102 CTGGGGCTGAAGAATAC[C/A]TTT ID CTGGTGTGACTCACTCACATGAC NO: TATTGGCAAGAGAA 1031 0.2068 0.1826 0.1907 6.96E- 1.17 1.09 1.25 4 rs10014285 161, A G CCTTGGAGAGTTCCTCCACTTCTC SEQ 06 307, TCTGACAATTAAAATC[G/A]GTGT ID 972 TTGCTGAGATTAGACATTTTTTTC NO: TTCTCTGTTTAG 1032 0.04611 0.03563 0.0323 5.50E- 1.31 1.15 1.49 4 rs12650364 186, A G TGGTGGTAGGGAGACCTTTTGGT SEQ 05 365, GGTATTTGAATTAAACA[G/A]TAT ID 998 CATTTTCTTTAAAACCAACTCCAC NO: AGACTACAAAAAT 1033 0.05481 0.0401 0.0479 1.06E- 1.39 1.23 1.57 4 rs4611976 188, G T GTGTTGGTCGGTACAGTTCTAGA SEQ 07 990, AGGAAAGCTCTGAGCTG[T/G]GC ID 955 CCCTCTCTCCAGGTGGAATTAGA NO: TTTTATATATTCACT 1034 0.3727 0.3466 0.3437 7.34E- 1.12 1.06 1.19 5 rs4128741 76,423, T C ATTCCCCATTCCTTTACAATTATA SEQ 05 967 ATTGCCTCCATATTGT[C/T]CAAG ID GACCATAGTTACCACTTGACCCA NO: GAGCCTCTCCCTT 1035 0.4173 0.3783 0.3939 6.02E- 1.15 1.09 1.22 5 rs12521058 76, A C AGCTGTTCTCAGATACCAGACTG SEQ 07 426, GAATAAACGAGAGACAT[C/A]TG ID 987 GAGAAAGGAGACCTCTTCCTATC No: CCAACAGGACTGTGT 1036 0.1807 0.1566 0.1645 1.77E- 1.19 1.11 1.28 6 rs6456259 19, G A GCTCACCAAGCAAGATTCCTCTC SEQ 06 761, ATCCCCTGCCACTCCCT[A/G]TTT ID 718 AATGCCTTTGTAAAAACTGTAAT NO: TTGGTGAATCCCAA 1037 0.1874 0.1659 0.1615 2.88E- 1.16 1.08 1.24 6 rs563440 151, C T GCTACTCTTTTCTTCCAAAATACT SEQ 05 288, CTCTCCTCAGCAGCCA[T/]AGAG ID 991 ACTGAAACCTAATGAAGCCCTGT NO: TGCCTTCCTACTT 1038 0.1003 0.118 0.1262 6.95E- 0.83 0.76 0.91 6 rs9347099 166, T G TCATTGGGAGTTATGAGCACATT SEQ 05 327, TCATAAACATAATTCCA[G/T]GGG ID 886 TTCGCCTGTGATGACATCATTCCT No: TTTCACAAGGTTT 1039 0.4488 0.4107 0.4152 2.01E- 1.17 1.11 1.23 7 rs11773804 27, G T CTCCCCCTGCCCCCAATTCCTAAC SEQ 08 206, AGAAAGCAGCGACTCC[T/G]AGA ID 688 ACAGGGGTAATCAAATTCACGTG NO: TGGATACTGTGCCT 1040 0.1704 0.1916 0.1829 9.23E- 0.87 0.81 0.93 7 rs11535191 37, G A AGGAAAATAAATTATGGAGACAT SEQ 05 747, TAAGTAAATTGCCCAAG[A/G]TG ID 276 GCCCAGCTAGTAAATAATAAAGG No: CAAGATTTTAGAGCC 1041 0.2479 0.2246 0.1985 5.67E- 1.14 1.07 1.21 8 rs17342242 60, G A TAATGAATCTGAGTGGGATAGTG SEQ 05 828, ATCAGAATAAGGAAGTA[A/G]GG ID 697 CCAATAACATTTCTGGGTAACTT NO: GCCATGAGCCAAGCA 1042 0.06199 0.07925 0.08 2.88E- 0.77 0.69 0.86 9 rs9695167 106, A C TTATAGTCCCAAGTAGTCAGAGA SEQ 06 169, TGGACTGTATAATATGC[C/A]GGG ID 268 CACAGGGCAAAACAAGAATGAG NO: GGAAGTTGTTGACAG 1043 0.3579 0.3919 0.3861 4.64E- 0.87 0.82 0.92 10 rs11253141 5,422, C A AGCTATCATTCCCCAGTGTGAAC SEQ 07 196 CTCAAGTCATCAGATTG[A/C]ATC ID TCCCCACCTGCCATTGTTTTTATC NO: ACCTACCAACACC 1044 0.1681 0.1425 0.1327 1.62E- 1.22 1.13 1.31 10 rs11256106 9,222, C A TGAAATTGAAGTGGTGTTTATGA SEQ 07 228 ATCACATATGATAGATT[A/C]GGC ID AATTGAGTTATATTTTTATATCTG NO: CTTATCTCTCTAA 1045 0.4008 0.3734 0.3694 4.37E- 1.12 1.06 1.19 13 rs7997707 46, A G GGCTGGAGGTCGAAAGACTCTAA SEQ 05 360, TCTGTTTCACTGTTTAC[G/A]TGTT ID 678 CAGTCAGTTCTCTCATTGGCAAA NO: ATATTTATCTCAA 1046 0.1636 0.1848 0.1726 7.49E- 0.86 0.80 0.93 13 rs9317519 66, C T TGTTAAGTTATTCCAATAATAAA SEQ 05 137, ATGTCATCCATAGGTTA[T/C]TGT ID 562 CACGTTTTAATATAAGACTTCTA NO: ATCAAATTCCTGGG 1047 0.1589 0.1395 0.1305 5.40E- 1.17 1.08 1.26 13 rs336237 110, T C TGGCTTCTTCGCAACTTGCATAG SEQ 05 496, AGGCTACCTCTGTGTCC[C/T]CTT ID 410 ATGGCTCGATAGCTCATTTCTTTT No: TATCCCCAAATAA 1048 0.3534 0.3266 0.32 3.80E- 1.13 1.07 1.19 14 rs10498441 52, G A ATAAACATAGTTATGCTTCATTA SEQ 05 544, CTCTGGTACAGAAACCC[G/A]GTT ID 224 CATTAGCCATTCAGAATGATTGT NO: GATATCCAAAATGA 1049 0.3145 0.2871 0.2855 1.36E- 1.14 1.07 1.21 14 rs7157151 52, T C TGTATCCAACCATGGGAAAAAGA SEQ 05 571, CTTAGCTACATTGTATA[T/C]ATT ID 583 TGATGAGTAACGTGTTTATAATA NO: CAACAAAAAGTGAA 1050 0.1256 0.1087 0.1131 9.94E- 1.18 1.08 1.28 14 rs12586828 71, T C TTGTGCTGCCTGAGAGGAGAGGG SEQ 05 186, AGCATCTCACCATCTCC[C/T]GCC ID 513 TTGGTATCTTTTATTCTTTAGGAC No: TCAGCTCAGGTTC 1051 0.4297 0.4609 0.4572 5.73E- 0.88 0.83 0.93 14 rs1951521 100, G A AATAAGTGAAAGAACTAGCAGTG SEQ 06 743, CAGCTAGTAAATCTAAC[G/A]TGG ID 421 TTCTTTTTTGACAACTGACACCAG No: AACCCTTAATCAT 1052 0.3167 0.3436 0.3378 3.97E- 0.89 0.84 0.94 15 rs7181230 40, G A AAAAAACCCTTACATTAGCATAA SEQ 05 360, AATCTGTAACAGGAGTG[A/G]AA ID 741 TGGAAATACAAGTTCTTGGAGAG No: AACGAAATAATGTAA 1053 0.5069 0.4794 0.4746 7.28E- 1.12 1.06 1.18 15 rs12442708 47, C T TTGCCTTTAGGACAGGACTGTTCT SEQ 05 144, TAGTCCTCTCCAGTTC[T/C]ACTCT ID 386 ATTGTAAAGTTTCTGAAAGTGCC NO: TCAGGTATTTCA 1054 0.4955 0.466 0.4712 1.79E- 1.13 1.07 1.19 16 rs10852432 66, C T AGAATCTTAGGCTCATTTTGCCC SEQ 05 402, ACATGGACCCATGACTG[T/C]TCC ID 515 CTGTATCCTCTCTCTGCACCCCCT NO: CAGTCACACTGAA 1055 0.1229 0.1049 0.1056 2.60E- 1.20 1.10 1.30 16 rs152828 72, T C CAGTGTCTACATCACTGACCTCT SEQ 05 123, GTGGTATTTCCTCCTGC[T/C]TAT ID 886 GACTGAGGGTAGAATCCTCTGGT NO: CCTTTTTTCCCCAA 1056 0.3705 0.343 0.3488 2.69E- 1.13 1.07 1.19 17 rs8076465 66, A G GAGCCAGGTCATAGATGTAGCTT SEQ 05 513, GTTTTGAAGTCAAGTGC[A/G]TTC ID 025 CTGGAGATCCGGTTTTGAAATGG No: GTCACTGTAAGGTG 1057 0.3709 0.3432 0.3475 2.45E- 1.13 1.07 1.19 17 rs2907373 66, A G CCCTTAGCTTGTCAAGTTAGCCTG SEQ 05 533, GCCAGAGTCTGGGGCC[A/G]ACT ID 655 GTTCCACTGGGCCGTCGACTATG NO: ACACTCTGCTGTCC 1058 0.2337 0.2109 0.207 6.31E- 1.14 1.07 1.22 18 rs2175565 46, G A GACGGTGAGGAGCGGGTGATGG SEQ 05 079, GGTAATTCCCGGAATGCA[G/A]A ID 852 CTGTAACCAGGGCAGTCAGAACA NO: AGGATTGTTAACCTGC 1059 0.3788 0.3525 0.3617 7.47E- 1.12 1.06 1.18 18 rs3900176 74, T C GTGAGTCGCCACTGTTGGCTTATT SEQ 05 739, TTATGTATTTGCATCG[T/C]TCCC ID 022 ATCTAAATGGGGATTCCCAGACT NO: TCATAGGCCAGTA 1060 0.07172 0.05786 0.06164 2.35E- 1.26 1.13 1.40 20 rs6110759 15, G A GTACTTATAAAGCAGCGGAATCT SEQ 05 693, CCTGCTTTATGAACTTT[A/G]GTT ID 977 CTGGGCTTCAGCTCTGTATTAGTC NO: TGTTCTCACACTG 1061 0.2432 0.22 0.2304 5.67E- 1.14 1.07 1.21 20 rs6043979 16, C A AATTCTCAGATCCACCAGTGAGA SEQ 05 451, CAGAAAACATAGGAGAC[A/C]GG ID 642 AAAAGAAGAATCAAATGGGAAG No: TGGAAAAAAGACAGGG 1062 0. 0.01914 0.01663 8.72E- 1.46 1.24 1.73 21 rs11702826 41, T C AAATGCTCCTAGAACTGCAAAAC SEQ 02777 06 908, ACCTAACTTATTCCAAA[C/T]TTT ID 935 CCGGATGAAAAGGCAGAGGATTT NO: TCTACTCCCATTTC 1063 0.2375 0.2623 0.248 4.68E- 0.88 0.82 0.93 22 rs1296795 18, G A TCTCTTTCCAGGTTAAATGTTGTT SEQ 05 021, CATTGCGTCCTTTCCC[A/G]AAGA ID 760 GTCTGTTCCCATAGAGAAGCATG No: GCACAAAGTGTGC 1064 0.077 0.09421 0.09076 1.61E- 0.80 0.73 0.89 22 rs736490 45, T C CAGCCGATGGGCTCTGCCAGATT SEQ 05 338, CCTGATCCACAGTAGGA[C/T]CCT ID 213 GGGGGCACCCTCTGCCCGAGGAC No: CCTGGAACACACAG 1065 While exemplary embodiments of the disclosure have been shown and described herein, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. It is not intended that the disclosure be limited by the specific examples provided within the specification. While the disclosure has been described with reference to the aforementioned specification, the descriptions and illustrations of the embodiments herein are not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. Numerous variations, changes, and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the disclosure. Furthermore, it shall be understood that all embodiments of the disclosure are not limited to the specific depictions, configurations or relative proportions set forth herein which depend upon a variety of conditions and variables. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the disclosure described herein may be employed in practicing the disclosure. It is therefore contemplated that the disclosure shall also cover any such alternatives, modifications, variations or equivalents. It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the disclosure and that methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.

### Claims

Claims (79) What is claimed: 1. A method comprising: (a) sequencing or genotyping a nucleic acid sample obtained from a subject having endometriosis, suspected of having endometriosis, or suspected of having a risk of developing endometriosis using a high throughput method; and (b) detecting one or more genetic variants in said nucleic acid sample, wherein said one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 1, Table 2 or Table 3. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said high throughput method comprises nanopore sequencing. 3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein said nucleic acid sample comprises RNA. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said RNA comprises mRNA. 5. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein said nucleic acid sample comprises DNA. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said DNA comprises cDNA, genomic DNA, sheared DNA, cell free DNA, fragmented DNA, or PCR amplified products produced therefrom, or any combination thereof. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said DNA comprises DNA from an endometriosis lesion or peritoneal fluid. 8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a genetic variant defining a minor allele. 9. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise at least about: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 500, or more genetic variants defining minor alleles. 10. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein detection of said one or more genetic variants has an odds ratio (OR) for endometriosis of at least about: 1.5, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, or more. 11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a synonymous mutation, a non-synonymous mutation, a stop-gain mutation, a nonsense mutation, an insertion, a deletion, a splice-site variant, a frameshift mutation, or any combination thereof. 12. The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a protein damaging mutation. 13. The method of any one of claim 12, wherein said one or more genetic variants further comprise a protein damaging or loss of function variant in one or more genes selected from the group consisting of GAT2, CCDC169, CASP8AP2, POU2F3, CD19, IGSF3, GLI3, PEX26, OLIG3, CIB4, NKX3-2, CFTR, and any combinations thereof. 14. The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein said one or more genetic variants are comprised in GAT2, CCDC169, CASP8AP2, POU2F3, CD19, IGSF3, GLI3, PEX26, OLIG3, CIB4, NKX3-2, CFTR or a combination thereof. 15. The method of any one of claims 1-13, further comprising detecting one or more additional variants defining a minor allele listed in Table 4. 16. The method of any one of claim 1-15, wherein said one or more genetic variants are identified or weighted based on a predictive mathematical or computer programmed algorithm. 17. The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein said one or more genetic variants are identified based on reference to a database. 18. The method of any one of claims 1-17, further comprising identifying said subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said identifying said subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis is with a specificity of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. 20. The method of any one of claims 18-19, wherein said identifying said subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis is with a sensitivity of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. 21. The method of any one of claims 18-20, wherein said identifying said subject as having endometriosis or being at risk of developing endometriosis is with an accuracy of at least: 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99%. 22. The method of any one of claims 18-21, wherein said subject is identified as having endometriosis. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said subject is asymptomatic for endometriosis. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein said subject is symptomatic for endometriosis. 25. The method of any one of claims 18-21, wherein said subject is identified as being at risk of developing endometriosis. 26. The method of any one of claims 1-25, further comprising administering a therapeutic to said subject. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said therapeutic comprises hormonal therapy, an advanced reproductive technology therapy, a pain managing medication, or any combination thereof. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein said therapeutic comprises hormonal contraceptives, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) agonists, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (Gn-RH) antagonists, progestin, danazol, or any combination thereof. 29. The method of any one of claims 26-28, wherein said therapeutic comprises a pain medication. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein said pain medication comprises a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), ibuprofen, naproxen, an opioid, a cannabis-based therapeutic, or any combination thereof. 31. The method of any one of claims 1-26, wherein said one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 1. 32. The method of any one of claims 1-26, wherein said one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 2. 33. The method of any one of claims 1-26, wherein said one or more genetic variants are listed in Table 3. 34. The method of any one of claims 1-33, further comprising identifying said subject as having endometriosis-associated infertility or being at risk of developing endometriosis-associated infertility. 35. The method of claim 34, further comprising administering assisted reproductive technology therapy to said subject. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein said assisted reproductive technology therapy comprises in vitro fertilization, gamete intrafallopian transfer, or any combination thereof. 37. The method of claim 34, further comprising administering intrauterine insemination or ovulation induction. 38. The method of any one of claims 1-37, wherein said subject is a mammal. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein said mammal is a human. 40. The method of any one of claims 2-39, wherein said nanopore sequencing is performed with a biological nanopore, a solid state nanopore, or a hybrid nanopore. 41. The method of any one of claims 1-40, wherein said one or more genetic variants further comprise a mutation in SEPT10, TNFRSF6B, UGT2B28, USP17L2 or any combination thereof. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a mutation in SEPT10 and wherein said mutation comprises a missense mutation. 43. The method of claim 41, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a mutation in TNFRSF6B and wherein said mutation comprises a homozygous or hemizygous mutation. 44. The method of claim 41, wherein said one or more genetic variants comprise a mutation in UGT2B28 or USP17L2 and wherein said mutation comprises a hemizygous deletion. 45. The method of any one of claims 1-44, wherein the one or more variants are identified based on a predictive computer algorithm. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein said predictive computer algorithm is Polyphen 2, Sift, Mutation Accessor, Mutation Taster, FATHMM, LRT, or MetaLR. 47. The method of any one of claims 1-46, further comprising administering a hormonal therapy to said subject. 48. The method of claim 47, wherein the hormonal therapy comprises administration of hormonal contraceptives, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonists, progestin, danazol, or any combination thereof. 49. The method of any one of claims 1-46, further comprising administering to the subject an assisted reproductive therapy. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the assisted reproductive therapy comprises in vitro fertilization, intrauterine insemination, ovulation induction, gamete intrafallopian transfer, or any combination thereof. 51. The method of any one of claims 1-46, further comprising administering to the subject a pain medication. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein the pain medication comprises a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), ibuprofen, naproxen, an opioid, a cannabis-based therapeutic, or any combination thereof. 53. The method of any one of claims 1-46, further comprising administering a therapeutic to the subject. 54. The method of claim 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises a regenerative therapy, a medical device, a pharmaceutical composition, a medical procedure, or any combination thereof. 55. The method of claim 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory, a hormone treatment, a dietary supplement, a cannabis-derived therapeutic or any combination thereof. 56. The method of claim 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the pharmaceutical composition, and wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises an at least partially hemp-derived therapeutic, an at least partially cannabis-derived therapeutic, a cannabidiol (CBD) oil derived therapeutic, or any combination thereof. 57. The method of claim 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the medical procedure, and wherein the medical procedure comprises a laparoscopy, a laser ablation procedure, a hysterectomy or any combination thereof. 58. The method of claim 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the regenerative therapy, and wherein the regenerative therapy comprises a stem cell, a cord blood cell, a Wharton's jelly, an umbilical cord tissue, a tissue, or any combination thereof. 59. The method of claim 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the pharmaceutical composition, and wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises cannabis, cannabidiol oil, hemp, or any combination thereof. 60. The method of claim 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises the pharmaceutical composition, and wherein the pharmaceutical composition is formulated in a unit dose. 61. The method of claim 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises hormonal therapy, an advanced reproductive therapy, a pain managing medication, or any combination thereof. 62. The method of claim 53, wherein the therapeutic comprises a hormonal contraceptive, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist, progestin, danazol, or any combination thereof. 63. The method of any one of claims 1-62, wherein the subject is asymptomatic for endometriosis. 64. A kit comprising: one or more probes for detecting one or more genetic variants of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, or any combination thereof in a sample. 65. The kit of claim 64, further comprising a control sample. 66. The kit of claim 64, wherein the control sample comprises one or more genetic variants of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, or any combination thereof. 67. The kit of any one of claims 64-66, wherein the one or more probes comprise a hybridization probe or amplification primer. 68. The kit of any one of claims 64-67, wherein the one or more probes is configured to associate with a solid support. 69. The kit of any one of claims 64-68, wherein the kit further comprises instructions for use and wherein the instructions for use comprise high stringent hybridization conditions. 70. The kit of any one of claims 64-69, wherein the one or more probes is configured to hybridize to a target region of a nucleic acid of the sample, wherein the target region comprises one or more genetic variants. 71. A system comprising: (a) a computer processor configured to receive sequencing data obtained from assaying a sample, wherein the computer processor is configured to identify a presence or an absence of one or more genetic variants of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3 or any combination thereof in the sample, and (b) a graphical user interface configured to display a report comprising the identification of the presence or the absence of the one or more genetic variants in the sample. 72. The system of claim 71, wherein the computer processor comprises a trained algorithm. 73. The system of claim 71 or 72, wherein the computer processor communicates a result. 74. The system of claim 73, wherein the result comprises an identification of the presence or the absence of one or more genetic variants in the sample. 75. A method comprising: (a) sequencing or genotyping a nucleic acid sample obtained from a subject having endometriosis, suspected of having endometriosis, or suspected of having a risk of developing endometriosis using a high throughput method; and (b) detecting a genetic variant in said nucleic acid sample, wherein said genetic variant comprises a mutation in SEPT10, TNFRSF6B, UGT2B28, USP17L2 or any combination thereof. 76. The method of claim 75, wherein said genetic variant is a mutation in SEPT10 and wherein said mutation comprises a missense mutation. 77. The method of claim 75, wherein said genetic variant is a mutation in TNFRSF6B and wherein said mutation comprises a homozygous or hemizygous mutation. 78. The method of claim 75, wherein said genetic variant is a mutation in UGT2B28 or USP17L2 and wherein said mutation comprises a hemizygous deletion. 79. The method of claim 75, wherein said high throughput method comprises nanopore sequencing.
