## Patent Reference

- Title: LOXHD1 Gene Mutants and Their Applications
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN112442528B/en

### Abstract

Abstract The invention provides a gene mutant related to non-syndromic deafness and application thereof. The gene mutations provided have a c.5331+1G > C mutation and/or a c.1973_2437+2del mutation, as compared to the wild-type LOXHD1 gene. The gene mutation is a new related pathogenic mutation of non-syndromic deafness, and whether the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness can be effectively detected by detecting whether the mutation exists in the biological sample. The gene mutation further expands and perfects the detection and research of hereditary hearing loss diseases, and provides a new detection site, a new detection method and a new detection way for the diagnosis and treatment of the diseases.

### Description

Description Translated from Chinese LOXHD1基因突变体及其应用LOXHD1 Gene Mutants and Their Applications 技术领域technical field 本发明涉及生物领域，具体涉及基因突变体及其应用，更具体地涉及基因突变、核酸、多肽、生物模型、用于治疗非综合征型耳聋的药物、用于检测患非综合征型耳聋的试剂盒、构建体及重组细胞。The present invention relates to the field of biology, in particular to gene mutants and applications thereof, more particularly to gene mutations, nucleic acids, polypeptides, biological models, drugs for treating non-syndromic deafness, and for detecting non-syndromic deafness Kits, Constructs and Recombinant Cells. 背景技术Background technique 耳聋(hearing loss,HL)是最常见的感官功能障碍类疾病，相当一部分的耳聋患者的发病与遗传因素有关。通过基因检测手段确定耳聋发病的分子机制，从而进一步采取产前基因诊断和干预措施，是降低耳聋发生率的有效手段，也是耳聋防治的根本途径之一。根据是否有并发的其他临床表型，遗传性耳聋可分为综合征型耳聋(syndromic hearingloss,SHL)和非综合征型耳聋(non-syndromic hearing loss,NSHL)。Deafness (hearing loss, HL) is the most common sensory dysfunction disease, a considerable part of the incidence of deaf patients is related to genetic factors. Determining the molecular mechanism of the onset of deafness by means of genetic testing, so as to further take prenatal genetic diagnosis and intervention measures, is an effective means to reduce the incidence of deafness and one of the fundamental ways to prevent and treat deafness. Hereditary hearing loss can be divided into syndromic hearing loss (SHL) and non-syndromic hearing loss (NSHL) according to the presence or absence of other clinical phenotypes. 非综合征型耳聋是指耳聋为发病个体唯一的症状，无其他遗传损害性器官功能障碍，非综合征型耳聋在先天性遗传性耳聋中占70％左右，其中又有75％-80％为常染色体隐性遗传(autosomal recessive,AR)。迄今为止，已有超过100个基因座(loci)与常染色体隐性耳聋相关联，这些基因座被命名为DFNB+数字的形式。由不同致病基因导致的非综合征型耳聋在发病年龄、听力损失程度、进行性等方面存在明显差异。确定耳聋发病的致病基因有助于为患者选取合适的听力干预手段，更好地提高耳聋患者的生活质量。Non-syndromic deafness means that deafness is the only symptom of the affected individual, and there is no other genetically damaged organ dysfunction. Chromosomal recessive inheritance (autosomal recessive, AR). To date, more than 100 loci have been associated with autosomal recessive deafness, and these loci have been named in the form of DFNB+ numbers. The non-syndromic deafness caused by different pathogenic genes has obvious differences in the age of onset, the degree of hearing loss, and the progression. Identifying the causative genes of deafness will help to select appropriate hearing intervention methods for patients and better improve the quality of life of deaf patients. 随着测序技术的发展，越来越多的遗传性耳聋相关基因得到鉴定，为遗传性耳聋的分子学诊断提供了基础，使得更多的遗传性耳聋得到诊断与治疗。然而，由于遗传性耳聋具有很强的遗传异质性，目前仍有大量的致病基因未被鉴定，所以这方面的研究还有很大的空间，仍需要加强基因鉴定方面的研究。With the development of sequencing technology, more and more genes related to hereditary deafness have been identified, which provides a basis for the molecular diagnosis of hereditary deafness, and enables more hereditary deafness to be diagnosed and treated. However, due to the strong genetic heterogeneity of hereditary deafness, there are still a large number of causative genes that have not been identified, so there is still a lot of room for research in this area, and it is still necessary to strengthen the research on gene identification. 发明内容SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 本发明旨在至少在一定程度上解决相关技术中的技术问题之一。为此，本发明的一个目的在于提出一种LOXHD1基因突变体及其应用。The present invention aims to solve one of the technical problems in the related art at least to a certain extent. Therefore, an object of the present invention is to propose a LOXHD1 gene mutant and its application. LOXHD1是DFNB77基因座对应的耳聋致病基因，该基因编码的脂氧化酶同源结构域1蛋白(lipoxygenase homology domain 1)主要在耳蜗的毛细胞中表达，对维持正常的细胞功能起重要作用。既往的动物模型功能试验显示，携带纯合有害突变的小鼠个体会出现早期发病的极重度耳聋表型。LOXHD1 is a deafness-causing gene corresponding to the DFNB77 locus. The lipoxygenase homology domain 1 protein encoded by this gene is mainly expressed in the hair cells of the cochlea and plays an important role in maintaining normal cell functions. Previous functional experiments in animal models have shown that individual mice harboring a homozygous deleterious mutation develop an early-onset profound deafness phenotype. 由LOXHD1基因致病突变导致的耳聋案例极为罕见，在世界范围内，迄今为止仅有三十余例家系报道。不同报道中的患者存在多方面的表型差异，提示可能存在环境因素或遗传调节机制的影响；已报道的案例中也有部分突变的致病性尚不甚明确。因此，针对LOXHD1基因相关常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的研究仍有待深入，新突变体的发现将有助于对相应致病机制和临床特征的进一步研究。Cases of deafness caused by pathogenic mutations in the LOXHD1 gene are extremely rare, and only more than 30 cases have been reported in families worldwide so far. There are many phenotypic differences between patients in different reports, suggesting that there may be the influence of environmental factors or genetic regulation mechanisms; the pathogenicity of some mutations in the reported cases is still unclear. Therefore, the research on LOXHD1 gene-related autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness remains to be in-depth, and the discovery of new mutants will contribute to further research on the corresponding pathogenic mechanism and clinical characteristics. 发明人针对自行收集的一例常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋Trio家系(父母+先证者)，通过多基因捕获测序Panel检测、家系分析联合Sanger测序验证的方法进行致病突变检测和验证；同时，通过qPCR方法验证样本DNA中出现的拷贝数变异。进而，发明人发现了常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋致病基因LOXHD1的一个新的致病位点，该突变位点可以用于早期筛查常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋致病突变携带者，进而在携带者发病之前进行早期干预治疗；也可用于常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋患者的分子诊断及与相关疾病的鉴别诊断，并且快速、准确、高效、简便、早期诊断率高，检测结果可以为常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋的早期诊断、鉴别诊断及开发常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋治疗药物提供科学依据。The inventors conducted the detection and verification of pathogenic mutations in a Trio family with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness (parents + probands) collected by themselves through the methods of multi-gene capture sequencing Panel detection, family analysis combined with Sanger sequencing verification; At the same time, the copy number variation present in the sample DNA was verified by qPCR method. Furthermore, the inventors discovered a new pathogenic locus of the autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness gene LOXHD1, which can be used for early screening of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness pathogenic mutation carriers It can also be used for molecular diagnosis and differential diagnosis of related diseases in patients with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, and it is fast, accurate, efficient, simple, and has a high early diagnosis rate. The results can provide scientific basis for the early diagnosis, differential diagnosis and development of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness drugs. 在本发明的第一方面，本发明提供了一种基因突变，该基因突变与野生型LOXHD1基因相比，具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变。发明人首次发现LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而可以通过检测上述基因突变在生物样品中是否发生，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋。In the first aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a gene mutation, the gene mutation has c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c.1973_2437+2del mutation compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene. The inventors discovered for the first time that the c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or the c.1973_2437+2del mutation of the LOXHD1 gene are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness. Effectively detect biological samples for non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第二方面，本发明提供了一种核酸，与野生型LOXHD1基因相比，所述核酸具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变。发明人首次发现LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而可以通过检测该核酸在生物样品中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋。In a second aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a nucleic acid having a c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or a c.1973_2437+2del mutation compared to the wild-type LOXHD1 gene. The inventors found for the first time that the c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c.1973_2437+2del mutation of the LOXHD1 gene are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, so that the presence of this nucleic acid in biological samples can be effectively detected. to test biological samples for non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第三方面，本发明提供了一种多肽，所述多肽由本发明第二方面所述的核酸表达而成。通过研究发现，LOXHD1基因上发生c.5331+1G>C突变，使得产生的mRNA不稳定或者容易降解，从而导致合成的蛋白质与野生型LOXHD1基因所表达的蛋白质或者多肽不同或者导致不会表达蛋白质或者多肽。该多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而可以通过检测该多肽在生物样品中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋。In the third aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a polypeptide expressed by the nucleic acid according to the second aspect of the present invention. Through research, it has been found that the c.5331+1G>C mutation in the LOXHD1 gene makes the generated mRNA unstable or easily degraded, resulting in the synthesized protein being different from the protein or polypeptide expressed by the wild-type LOXHD1 gene or causing the protein to not be expressed or peptides. The polypeptide is closely related to the pathogenesis of non-syndromic deafness, so whether the biological sample is suffering from non-syndromic deafness can be effectively detected by detecting whether the polypeptide exists in the biological sample. 在本发明的第四方面，本发明提供了一种检测基因突变或核酸或多肽的试剂在制备试剂盒或者设备中的用途，所述试剂盒或者设备用于诊断非综合征型耳聋，所述基因突变为本发明第一方面所述的基因突变，所述核酸为本发明第二方面所述的核酸，所述多肽为本发明第三方面所述的多肽。如前所述，上述所述的基因突变、核酸、多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而能够检测上述所述的基因突变、核酸或者多肽的试剂能够用于制备试剂盒或设备，所得到的试剂盒或者设备能有效筛选出患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In a fourth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides the use of a reagent for detecting gene mutation or nucleic acid or polypeptide in the preparation of a kit or device for diagnosing non-syndromic deafness, the The gene mutation is the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention, the nucleic acid is the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention, and the polypeptide is the polypeptide described in the third aspect of the present invention. As mentioned above, the above-mentioned gene mutations, nucleic acids and polypeptides are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and the reagents capable of detecting the above-mentioned gene mutations, nucleic acids or polypeptides can be used to prepare kits or equipment, The obtained kit or device can effectively screen out biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第五方面，本发明提供了一种生物模型在筛选药物中的用途，所述生物模型携带下列至少之一：(1)前面所述的基因突变；(2)前面所述的核酸；(3)表达前面所述的多肽。需要说明的是，“生物模型携带本发明第一方面所述的基因突变”表示，本发明的生物模型所携带的LOXHD1基因与野生型LOXHD1基因相比，具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变；“生物模型携带前面所述的核酸”表示，本发明的生物模型携带与LOXHD1基因相比具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变的核酸序列；“生物模型携带前面所述的多肽”表示，本发明的生物模型携带与野生型LOXHD1基因相比，具有LOXHD1基因c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变所表达的多肽。由此所提供的生物模型能有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。In the fifth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides the use of a biological model in screening drugs, the biological model carries at least one of the following: (1) the aforementioned gene mutation; (2) the aforementioned nucleic acid; (3) expressing the aforementioned polypeptide. It should be noted that 'the biological model carries the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention' means that, compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene, the LOXHD1 gene carried by the biological model of the present invention has c.5331+1G>C mutation and /or c.1973_2437+2del mutation; 'the biological model carries the aforementioned nucleic acid' means that the biological model of the present invention carries the c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or the c.1973_2437+2del mutation compared to the LOXHD1 gene 'The biological model carries the aforementioned polypeptide' means that the biological model of the present invention carries the LOXHD1 gene c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c.1973_2437+2del mutation compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene the expressed polypeptide. The biological model thus provided can be effectively used as a model for related research on non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第六方面，本发明提供了特异性改变基因突变或者核酸的试剂在制备药物中的用途，所述药物用于治疗非综合征型耳聋，所述基因突变为本发明第一方面所述的基因突变，所述核酸为本发明第二方面所述的核酸。需要说明的是，这里的特异性改变是指能使得突变的核酸或者基因突变的位点恢复到原来的野生状态或者其他不具有致病性的状态，而对于个体基因组的其他序列不产生实质影响。如前所述，前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变与非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，由此，特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂制备的药物能有效用于治疗非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。In the sixth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides the use of a reagent for specifically altering a gene mutation or nucleic acid in the preparation of a medicament for treating non-syndromic deafness, the gene mutation being the first aspect of the present invention For the gene mutation, the nucleic acid is the nucleic acid according to the second aspect of the present invention. It should be noted that the specific change here refers to the ability to restore the mutated nucleic acid or gene mutation site to the original wild state or other non-pathogenic state, without substantial impact on other sequences of the individual genome. . As mentioned above, the aforementioned nucleic acid or aforementioned gene mutation is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. The medicament prepared by the nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation reagent can be effectively used for the treatment of non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第七方面，本发明提供了一种用于治疗非综合型耳聋的药物，所述药物含有：特异性改变本发明第一方面所述的基因突变或者本发明第二方面所述的核酸的试剂。需要说明的是，这里的特异性改变是指能使得突变的核酸或者基因突变的位点恢复到原来的野生状态或者其他不具有致病性的状态，而对于个体基因组的其他序列不产生实质影响。如前所述，前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，由此，包含特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂的药物能有效用于治疗非综合征型耳聋。In the seventh aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a medicament for treating non-synthetic deafness, the medicament comprising: specifically altering the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention or the second aspect of the present invention nucleic acid reagents. It should be noted that the specific change here refers to the ability to restore the mutated nucleic acid or gene mutation site to the original wild state or other non-pathogenic state, without substantial impact on other sequences of the individual genome. . As described above, the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and thus, the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation is included in the reagent containing the specific alteration. Medications are effective in the treatment of nonsyndromic deafness. 在本发明的第八方面，本发明提供了一种构建体，包含本发明第一方面所述的基因突变或本发明第二方面所述的核酸。需要说明的是，“构建体包含本发明第一方面所述的基因突变”表示，本发明的构建体与野生型LOXHD1基因相比具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变；“构建体包含本发明第二方面所述的核酸”表示，本发明的构建体与野生型LOXHD1基因相比，其所包含的核酸c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变。由此，根据本发明实施例的构建体转化受体细胞获得的重组细胞，能够有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。In the eighth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a construct comprising the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention or the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention. It should be noted that 'the construct comprises the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention' means that the construct of the present invention has c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c.1973_2437+ compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene 2del mutation; 'the construct comprises the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention' means that, compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene, the construct of the present invention contains nucleic acid c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c. 1973_2437+2del mutation. Thus, the recombinant cells obtained by transforming the recipient cells with the constructs according to the embodiments of the present invention can be effectively used as models for related research on non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第九方面，本发明提供了一种重组细胞，所述重组细胞是通过本发明第八方面所述的构建体转化受体细胞或者表达本发明第三方面所述的多肽而获得的。本发明的重组细胞，能够有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。In the ninth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a recombinant cell obtained by transforming a recipient cell with the construct described in the eighth aspect of the present invention or expressing the polypeptide described in the third aspect of the present invention of. The recombinant cells of the present invention can be effectively used as a model for related research on non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第十方面，本发明提供了一种检测非综合征型耳聋的试剂盒，所述试剂盒中包括检测本发明第一方面所述的基因突变的试剂，和/或检测本发明第二方面所述的核酸的试剂，和/或检测本发明第三方面所述的多肽的试剂。前面所述的基因突变、核酸、多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而能用于包含能有效地检测前面所述的核酸或前面所述的基因突变或前面所述的多肽的试剂的试剂盒能有效筛选出患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In the tenth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a kit for detecting non-syndromic deafness, the kit comprising the reagent for detecting the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention, and/or detecting the present invention The nucleic acid reagent described in the second aspect, and/or the reagent for detecting the polypeptide described in the third aspect of the present invention. The aforementioned gene mutations, nucleic acids, and polypeptides are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and can be used to contain reagents that can effectively detect the aforementioned nucleic acids or the aforementioned gene mutations or the aforementioned polypeptides The kit can effectively screen biological samples with non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 本发明的附加方面和优点将在下面的描述中部分给出，部分将从下面的描述中变得明显，或通过本发明的实践了解到。Additional aspects and advantages of the present invention will be set forth, in part, from the following description, and in part will be apparent from the following description, or may be learned by practice of the invention. 附图说明Description of drawings 本发明的上述和/或附加的方面和优点从结合下面附图对实施例的描述中将变得明显和容易理解，其中：The above and/or additional aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent and readily understood from the following description of embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein: 图1显示了根据本发明的一个实施例提供的隐性遗传非综合型耳聋Trio家系图。FIG. 1 shows the Trio family diagram of recessive genetic non-synthetic deafness provided according to an embodiment of the present invention. 图2显示了根据本发明的一个实施例提供的图1所示患者家系中患者的纯音测听结果图。FIG. 2 shows a graph of pure tone audiometry results of a patient in the family of the patient shown in FIG. 1 according to an embodiment of the present invention. 图3显示了根据本发明的一个实施例提供的图1所示患者家系中所有家系成员的LOXHD1基因c.5331+1G>C突变位点的代表性Sanger测序验证峰图。Figure 3 shows a representative Sanger sequencing-validated peak map of the LOXHD1 gene c.5331+1G>C mutation site in all family members of the patient's family shown in Figure 1 provided according to an embodiment of the present invention. 图4显示了根据本发明的一个实施例提供的图1所示患者家系中所有家系成员的LOXHD1基因拷贝数变异的qPCR验证结果图。Fig. 4 shows a graph of the results of qPCR validation of the copy number variation of the LOXHD1 gene in all family members of the patient's family shown in Fig. 1 provided according to an embodiment of the present invention. 具体实施方式Detailed ways 下面通过参考附图描述的实施例是示例性的，旨在用于解释本发明，而不能理解为对本发明的限制。The embodiments described below with reference to the accompanying drawings are exemplary, and are intended to explain the present invention and should not be construed as limiting the present invention. 针对遗传性耳聋分子诊断主流方法，已从传统的单基因逐个测序转变为多基因捕获测序Panel。在美国国家生物技术信息中心(NCBI)数据库中有超过200个注册在案的遗传性耳聋多基因捕获测序Panel，相应的检测范围包含数十个乃至上百个耳聋相关基因。与单基因测序相比，通过多基因捕获测序Panel方法检测范围广，单位成本低，能够一次性全面排查大范围的目标区域。同时，该方法还能够检测外显子水平的大片段缺失/重复，即拷贝数变异(copy number variant,CNV)，从而涵盖更多可能的致病机制。For the mainstream method of molecular diagnosis of hereditary deafness, the traditional single-gene sequencing has been transformed into a multi-gene capture sequencing panel. In the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) database of the United States, there are more than 200 registered hereditary deafness polygene capture and sequencing panels, and the corresponding detection range includes dozens or even hundreds of deafness-related genes. Compared with single-gene sequencing, the multi-gene capture sequencing Panel method has a wide detection range and low unit cost, and can comprehensively investigate a wide range of target regions at one time. At the same time, the method can also detect large deletions/duplications at the exon level, namely copy number variants (CNVs), thus covering more possible pathogenic mechanisms. 发明人针对自行收集的一例常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋Trio家系(父母+先证者)，通过多基因捕获测序Panel检测、家系分析联合Sanger测序验证的方法进行致病突变检测和验证；同时，通过qPCR方法验证样本DNA中出现的拷贝数变异。进而，发明人发现了常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋致病基因LOXHD1的新的致病位点——LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变。该突变位于经典剪切位置，在多个公共数据库中均无记录，属于烈性低频突变；且该突变与患者另一条染色体上同一个基因的15号至17号外显子缺失拷贝数变异构成复合杂合(in trans)，两位点均发生突变，会导致常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发生。另外，由于这两个位点均为隐性突变，当任一位点本身发生纯合突变时，会导致非综合征型耳聋的发生。The inventors conducted the detection and verification of pathogenic mutations in a Trio family with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness (parents + probands) collected by themselves through the methods of multi-gene capture sequencing Panel detection, family analysis combined with Sanger sequencing verification; At the same time, the copy number variation present in the sample DNA was verified by qPCR method. Furthermore, the inventors discovered a new pathogenic locus of the autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness gene LOXHD1 - the c.5331+1G>C mutation of the LOXHD1 gene. The mutation is located at the classical splicing position, which has not been recorded in multiple public databases, and is a potent low-frequency mutation; and the mutation forms a compound heterozygous complex with the deletion copy number variation in exons 15 to 17 of the same gene on the patient's other chromosome In trans, mutations at both sites lead to autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness. In addition, since these two loci are both recessive mutations, when either locus itself has a homozygous mutation, it will lead to the occurrence of non-syndromic deafness. 本文中，术语“非综合征型耳聋”在本领域也常被称为“非综合征型遗传性耳聋”，其是指耳聋为个体发病的唯一症状，不伴随着其他遗传性损害性器官功能障碍。Herein, the term 'non-syndromic deafness' is also commonly referred to in the art as 'non-syndromic hereditary deafness', which refers to the fact that deafness is the only symptom of an individual's onset and is not accompanied by other hereditary damaging organ dysfunctions . 术语“常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋”在本领域也通常为称为“常染色体隐性非综合征型遗传性耳聋”或者被称为“非综合征型常染色体隐性耳聋”或者“非综合征型常染色体隐性遗传性耳聋”，是指遗传性耳聋是发生在常染色体上的隐性等位基因所控制的，即需要两个等位基因均表现为隐性，该患者才表现为患病。The term 'autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness' is also commonly referred to in the art as 'autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness' or as 'non-syndromic autosomal recessive deafness' or ' 'Non-syndromic autosomal recessive deafness' means that hereditary deafness is controlled by a recessive allele that occurs on an autosomal chromosome, that is, both alleles are required to be recessive for the patient to manifested as sickness. 而且，需要说明的是，本文中所提供的LOXHD1基因上的突变位点，可以用来作为非综合征型耳聋，更具体地说是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的标示；或者这些突变位点的出现用来说明生物样品患有非综合征型耳聋，更具体地说是患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。这并不意味着“非综合征型耳聋”、“常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋”是作为LOXHD1基因上该突变位点的一种限制。也就是说，如果要对LOXHD1基因上的该突变位点所表征的疾病进行详细地指示或者说明时，可以知悉其可以说明该生物样品是患有非综合征型耳聋，更具体地说是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋；但是也完全可以根据具体目的或者针对对象不同，被直接告知患有遗传性耳聋，更或者说是患有耳聋。Moreover, it should be noted that the mutation sites on the LOXHD1 gene provided herein can be used as markers for non-syndromic deafness, more specifically autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness; or these mutations The presence of loci is used to indicate that the biological sample has non-syndromic deafness, more specifically autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. This does not mean that 'non-syndromic deafness', 'autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness' is a limitation of this mutation site in the LOXHD1 gene. That is to say, if the disease characterized by the mutation site on the LOXHD1 gene is to be indicated or explained in detail, it can be known that it can indicate that the biological sample is suffering from non-syndromic deafness, more specifically a common deafness. Chromosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness; but it is also possible to be directly informed of hereditary deafness, or to be deaf, depending on the specific purpose or target. 本文中，野生型LOXHD1基因的DNA序列(例如包括内含子序列、外显子序列等)、RNA序列、所编码的蛋白信息等有关该野生型LOXHD1基因的信息均在NCBI数据库中有收录，可以参考下述网址获得：https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/125336。本文中所示出的c.5331+1G>C突变、c.1973_2437+2del突变是以NCBI数据库中野生型LOXHD1基因的序列为参考而确定的。Herein, the DNA sequence (for example, including intron sequence, exon sequence, etc.), RNA sequence, encoded protein information and other information about the wild-type LOXHD1 gene of the wild-type LOXHD1 gene are included in the NCBI database, It can be obtained by referring to the following URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/125336. The c.5331+1G>C mutation and the c.1973_2437+2del mutation shown herein were determined with reference to the sequence of the wild-type LOXHD1 gene in the NCBI database. 本文中，所示出的c.5331+1G>C突变是指发生在野生型LOXHD1基因的34号内含子的第1位碱基G突变为C。Herein, the c.5331+1G>C mutation shown refers to the mutation of G to C at position 1 of intron 34 of the wild-type LOXHD1 gene. 同时为了方便查看，将该野生型LOXHD1基因的部分核酸序列提供如下，c.5331+1G>C突变对应该部分野生型LOXHD1基因序列(SEQ ID NO:1)的第507位置碱基G突变为C，即下文SEQ ID NO:1中的加粗加框的碱基G会突变为碱基C：At the same time, for the convenience of viewing, the partial nucleic acid sequence of the wild-type LOXHD1 gene is provided as follows. The c.5331+1G>C mutation corresponds to the mutation of the base G at position 507 of the partial wild-type LOXHD1 gene sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) as C, that is, the bolded boxed base G in SEQ ID NO: 1 below will be mutated to base C: 该部分野生型LOXHD1基因的编码DNA(对应NCBI数据库编号为NCBI ReferenceSequence：NG_016646.2)从151831至151230具有如下所示的核苷酸序列(SEQ ID NO:1)，其中SEQ ID NO:1中下划线加粗碱基即为引物SEQ ID NO:7和SEQ ID NO:8所匹配的位置：The coding DNA of this part of the wild-type LOXHD1 gene (corresponding to the NCBI database number NCBI ReferenceSequence: NG_016646.2) has the nucleotide sequence (SEQ ID NO:1) shown below from 151831 to 151230, wherein in SEQ ID NO:1 The underlined and bold bases are the matched positions of primers SEQ ID NO:7 and SEQ ID NO:8: 发明人发现的LOXHD1基因突变体，与野生型LOXHD1基因相比，具有c.5331+1G>C突变，即相对于野生型LOXHD1基因，该LOXHD1突变体34号内含子的第1位碱基G突变为C，对应上述参考序列(SEQ ID NO：1)的第507位碱基G突变为C。由此，其编码的产物与野生型相比，34号内含子上经典剪切位置的供体位点(donor site)遭到破坏，从而影响正常剪切。Compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene, the LOXHD1 gene mutant discovered by the inventors has the c.5331+1G>C mutation, that is, compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene, the LOXHD1 mutant has the first base of intron 34. G was mutated to C, and the base 507 corresponding to the above reference sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) was mutated to C. Thus, compared with the wild-type product, the donor site of the canonical splicing position on intron 34 is destroyed, thereby affecting normal splicing. 上述c.5331+1G>C突变与另一条染色体上同一个基因的15号至17号外显子缺失(NG_016646.2(LOXHD1_v001):c.1973_2437+2del)拷贝数变异构成复合杂合(in trans)，导致了常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发生。这里的“15号至17号外显子缺失拷贝数变异”是指：15号至17号外显子这段序列缺失，拷贝数减少导致拷贝数变异，表示为c.1973_2437+2del突变。The above c.5331+1G>C mutation constitutes a compound heterozygous (in trans ), leading to the occurrence of autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness. Here, 'deletion of copy number variation in exons 15 to 17' refers to the deletion of the sequence from exons 15 to 17, and the reduction in copy number leads to copy number variation, which is expressed as c.1973_2437+2del mutation. 同时为了方便查看，将该c.1973_2437+2del突变对应的部分野生型LOXHD1基因序列提供如下，c.1973_2437+2del突变对应该部分野生型LOXHD1基因序列(SEQ ID NO:2)的15号至17号外显子这段序列缺失，即下文SEQ ID NO:2中的加下划线的序列缺失：At the same time, for the convenience of viewing, the partial wild-type LOXHD1 gene sequence corresponding to the c.1973_2437+2del mutation is provided as follows. The c.1973_2437+2del mutation corresponds to No. 15 to 17 of the partial wild-type LOXHD1 gene sequence (SEQ ID NO: 2). This sequence of exon number is deleted, that is, the underlined sequence deletion in SEQ ID NO: 2 below: 该部分野生型LOXHD1基因的核酸序列(对应NCBI数据库编号：NG_016646.2)从89601至95900具有如下所示的核苷酸序列(SEQ ID NO:2)，加粗碱基即为引物SEQ ID NO:3～引物SEQ ID NO:6匹配位置：The nucleic acid sequence of this part of the wild-type LOXHD1 gene (corresponding to NCBI database number: NG_016646.2) has the following nucleotide sequence (SEQ ID NO: 2) from 89601 to 95900, and the bold base is the primer SEQ ID NO :3～Primer SEQ ID NO:6 Matching position: 需要说明的是，上述给出的突变位点以及序列等，均是以收录于NCBI数据库中的内容作为参考，本领域技术人员应该理解的是，由于数据库的更新或者数据库的不同，所示出的突变位点以及序列可能会稍有不同或者变化，这些不同或者变化均可以给出的该数据库中的内容为标准找到，这些不同或者变化也均包含在本发明的保护范围之内。It should be noted that the mutation sites and sequences given above are all based on the contents included in the NCBI database as a reference. Those skilled in the art should understand that due to the update of the database or the difference between the databases, the shown The mutation site and sequence may be slightly different or changed, and these differences or changes can be found in the content of the database given as a standard, and these differences or changes are also included in the protection scope of the present invention. 而且，本领域技术人员能够理解的是，本文中所使用的野生型LOXHD1基因序列位置是以人类基因组中野生型LOXHD1基因的序列为准，但当该野生型LOXHD1基因存在于其他物种时，该序列可能会有所差异，可以将该物种的野生型LOXHD1基因与人类基因组中野生型LOXHD1基因进行比对，获得该物种的野生型LOXHD1基因中所对应的位置。Moreover, those skilled in the art can understand that the position of the wild-type LOXHD1 gene sequence used herein is based on the sequence of the wild-type LOXHD1 gene in the human genome, but when the wild-type LOXHD1 gene exists in other species, the The sequence may be different. The wild-type LOXHD1 gene of this species can be compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene in the human genome to obtain the corresponding position in the wild-type LOXHD1 gene of this species. 基因突变Gene mutation 在本发明的一个方面，本发明提出了一种基因突变。根据本发明的实施例，与野生型LOXHD1基因相比，具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变。发明人发现LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变与非综合征型耳聋(如常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋)的发病密切相关，从而通过检测上述基因突变在生物样品中是否发生，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋。In one aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a gene mutation. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene, it has a c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or a c.1973_2437+2del mutation. The inventors found that the c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or the c.1973_2437+2del mutation of the LOXHD1 gene are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness (such as autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness). Whether the mutation occurs in the biological sample can effectively detect whether the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness. 基因突变通常指基因在结构上发生碱基对组成或者排列顺序的改变。本文中，基因突变是指发生在LOXHD1基因上的突变。该基因突变是可以被检测的或者说是可以被辨别的，其可以作为LOXHD1基因上的一个突变位点被检测或者辨别，也可以被作为LOXHD1基因的部分核酸或者LOXHD1基因的全部核酸被检测或者辨别。当然也可以称该基因突变是可以被甄选的。可以采用本领域常用的抗体、探针、引物以及质谱检测试剂等，对上述基因突变进行检测。Gene mutation usually refers to the change of the base pair composition or arrangement order of the gene in structure. Herein, gene mutation refers to a mutation that occurs in the LOXHD1 gene. The gene mutation can be detected or identified, it can be detected or identified as a mutation site on the LOXHD1 gene, it can also be detected as a partial nucleic acid of the LOXHD1 gene or the entire nucleic acid of the LOXHD1 gene can be detected or distinguish. Of course, it can also be said that the gene mutation can be selected. The above-mentioned gene mutations can be detected by using antibodies, probes, primers and mass spectrometry detection reagents commonly used in the art. 核酸nucleic acid 在本发明的又一方面，本发明提出了一种核酸。根据本发明的实施例，与野生型LOXHD1基因相比，所述核酸具有下列的突变：c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变。发明人发现LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而通过检测上述核酸在生物样品中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋。In yet another aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a nucleic acid. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene, the nucleic acid has the following mutations: c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c.1973_2437+2del mutation. The inventors found that the c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or the c.1973_2437+2del mutation of the LOXHD1 gene are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, so that by detecting whether the above nucleic acid exists in a biological sample, it can be effectively detected Whether the biological sample suffers from nonsyndromic deafness. 对于本发明说明书和权利要求书中，提及核酸，本领域技术人员应当理解，实际包括互补双链的任意一条，或者两条。为了方便，在本说明书和权利要求书中，虽然多数情况下只给出了一条链，但实际上也公开了与之互补的另一条链。例如，提及LOXHD1基因的序列，实际包括其互补序列。本领域技术人员还可以理解，利用一条链可以检测另一条链，反之亦然。In the description and claims of the present invention, when referring to nucleic acid, those skilled in the art should understand that it actually includes any one, or two, of complementary double strands. For convenience, in this specification and claims, although only one chain is given in most cases, another chain complementary to it is actually disclosed. For example, reference to the sequence of the LOXHD1 gene actually includes its complement. It will also be understood by those skilled in the art that one chain can be used to detect another chain, and vice versa. 需要说明的是，野生型LOXHD1基因的编码序列可以从如下网址获得：https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/125336。It should be noted that the coding sequence of the wild-type LOXHD1 gene can be obtained from the following website: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/125336. 本文中所提到的c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变是以上述网址所对应的编码序列进行定位的。The c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or the c.1973_2437+2del mutation mentioned in this article are located in the coding sequences corresponding to the above URLs. 多肽Peptide 在本发明另一方面，本发明提出了一种多肽。根据本发明的实施例，所述多肽由上述核酸表达而成。如前所述，LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，该突变基因所表达的蛋白与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而通过检测上述多肽在生物样品中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a polypeptide. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the polypeptide is expressed from the above-mentioned nucleic acid. As mentioned above, the c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c.1973_2437+2del mutation of the LOXHD1 gene are closely related to the pathogenesis of non-syndromic deafness, and the protein expressed by this mutant gene is closely related to the development of non-syndromic deafness. The pathogenesis is closely related, and by detecting whether the above-mentioned polypeptide exists in the biological sample, whether the biological sample is suffering from non-syndromic deafness can be effectively detected. 检测前面所述的核酸、基因突变、多肽的试剂在制备试剂盒或设备中的用途Use of the reagents for detecting the aforementioned nucleic acids, gene mutations, and polypeptides in the preparation of kits or equipment 在本发明的又一方面，本发明提出了前面所述的基因突变或前面所述的核酸或前面所述的多肽的试剂在制备试剂盒或者设备中的用途。根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂盒或者设备用于诊断非综合征型耳聋。如前所述，前面所述的核酸、基因突变、多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而检测前面所述的核酸或前面所述的基因突变或前面所述的多肽的试剂用于制备试剂盒或者设备，所得到的试剂盒或者设备能有效筛选出患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of the aforementioned gene mutation or the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned polypeptide reagent in the preparation of a kit or device. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the kit or device is used for diagnosing non-syndromic deafness. As mentioned above, the aforementioned nucleic acids, gene mutations, and polypeptides are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and the reagents for detecting the aforementioned nucleic acids or aforementioned gene mutations or aforementioned polypeptides are used for A kit or device is prepared, and the obtained kit or device can effectively screen out biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，所述非综合征型耳聋为常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the non-syndromic deafness is autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂包括特异性针对所述核酸、所述基因突变和所述多肽的至少之一的抗体、探针、引物以及质谱检测试剂的至少之一。例如，发明人可通过特异性识别所述多肽的抗体与所述多肽的特异性结合来检测待测样品中是否存在上述突变，即通过特异性抗体与抗原的相互作用来检测上述多肽是否存在；发明人还可以通过预先设计特异性识别所述核酸或基因突变的探针，通过探针与上述核酸或基因突变位点所在的核酸片段发生互补配对，来鉴别上述核酸或基因突变的存在；发明人还可以设计用于扩增上述基因突变所在外显子的特异性引物，进而通过基因扩增以及测序，确定上述基因突变是否存在；发明人还可以通过质谱来检测多肽的m/z来判断，上述发生c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变所表达的多肽是否存在。根据本发明的具体实施例的抗体、探针、引物以及质谱检测试剂的至少之一能特异性、高灵敏性地筛选出前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变或者前面所述的多肽，进而特异性、高灵敏性地筛选出患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是患常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品，进而能有效用于制备筛选患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是患常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的试剂盒或者设备。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the reagent includes at least one of an antibody, a probe, a primer and a mass spectrometry detection reagent specific for at least one of the nucleic acid, the gene mutation and the polypeptide. For example, the inventor can detect whether the above-mentioned mutation exists in the sample to be tested by the specific binding of an antibody that specifically recognizes the polypeptide and the polypeptide, that is, through the interaction of the specific antibody and the antigen to detect the existence of the above-mentioned polypeptide; The inventors can also identify the existence of the above-mentioned nucleic acid or gene mutation by pre-designing a probe that specifically recognizes the nucleic acid or gene mutation, and by complementary pairing between the probe and the nucleic acid fragment where the above-mentioned nucleic acid or gene mutation site is located; People can also design specific primers for amplifying the exons where the above-mentioned gene mutation is located, and then determine whether the above-mentioned gene mutation exists through gene amplification and sequencing; the inventor can also use mass spectrometry to detect the m/z of the polypeptide to judge. , whether the polypeptide expressed by the above c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c.1973_2437+2del mutation exists. At least one of the antibodies, probes, primers and mass spectrometry detection reagents according to specific embodiments of the present invention can screen the aforementioned nucleic acids or the aforementioned gene mutations or the aforementioned polypeptides with specificity and high sensitivity , and then specifically and highly sensitively screen out biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, and then can be effectively used to prepare and screen non-syndromic deafness, especially Kits or devices for biological samples with autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness. 生物模型biological model 在本发明的另一方面，本发明提出了生物模型在筛选药物中的用途。根据本发明的实施例，所述生物模型携带下列至少之一：(1)前面所述的核酸；(2)前面所述的基因突变；(3)表达前面所述的多肽。需要说明的是，“生物模型携带前面所述的核酸”表示，本发明的生物模型携带与野生型LOXHD1基因相比具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变的LOXHD1基因突变体的核酸序列；“生物模型携带前面所述的基因突变”表示，本发明的生物模型携带的LOXHD1基因与野生型LOXHD1基因相比具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变。“生物模型携带前面所述的多肽”表示，本发明的生物模型携带与野生型LOXHD1基因相比具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变所表达的多肽。根据本发明的实施例的生物模型能有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。这些生物模型可以是细胞模型也可以是动物模型。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of biological models in screening drugs. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the biological model carries at least one of the following: (1) the aforementioned nucleic acid; (2) the aforementioned gene mutation; (3) the aforementioned polypeptide. It should be noted that 'the biological model carries the aforementioned nucleic acid' means that the biological model of the present invention carries LOXHD1 with c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c.1973_2437+2del mutation compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene The nucleic acid sequence of the gene mutant; 'the biological model carries the aforementioned gene mutation' means that the LOXHD1 gene carried by the biological model of the present invention has c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c. 1973_2437+2del mutation. 'The biological model carries the aforementioned polypeptide' means that the biological model of the present invention carries the polypeptide expressed with the c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or the c.1973_2437+2del mutation compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene. The biological model according to the embodiment of the present invention can be effectively used as a model for related research of non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. These biological models can be cell models or animal models. 试剂在制备药物中的用途Use of reagents in the preparation of medicines 在本发明的又一方面，本发明提出了特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂在制备药物中的用途，所述药物用于治疗非综合征型耳聋。需要说明的是，这里的特异性改变是指能使得突变的核酸或者基因突变的位点恢复到原来的野生状态或者其他不具有致病性的状态，而对于个体基因组的其他序列不产生实质影响。如前所述，前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，由此，由这些能够特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂所制备的药物能有效用于治疗非综合征型耳聋。In yet another aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of an agent that specifically alters the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation in the preparation of a medicament for treating non-syndromic deafness. It should be noted that the specific change here refers to the ability to restore the mutated nucleic acid or gene mutation site to the original wild state or other non-pathogenic state, without substantial impact on other sequences of the individual genome. . As mentioned above, the aforementioned nucleic acids or the aforementioned gene mutations are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness. Therefore, these nucleic acids or the aforementioned gene mutations can specifically change the aforementioned nucleic acids. The medicament prepared by the reagent can be effectively used for treating non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂为基于shRNA、反义核酸、核酶、显性负突变、CRISPR-Cas9、CRISPR-Cpf1和锌指核酸酶至少之一的试剂。例如，CRISPRs技术是一种由RNA指导Cas蛋白对靶向基因进行修饰的技术，CRISPR-Cas9主要通过基因敲除、特种变异的引入和定点转基因三种途径来实现基因组改造，基于CRISPR-Cas9的方法，发明人可以设计出sgRNA并合成该序列的gRNA，然后将gRNA与d Cas9在细胞中共表达，通过gRNA介导d Cas9蛋白与目标DNA区域结合，进而实现特定位点的修复或改变。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the reagent is a reagent based on at least one of shRNA, antisense nucleic acid, ribozyme, dominant-negative mutation, CRISPR-Cas9, CRISPR-Cpf1 and zinc finger nuclease. For example, CRISPRs technology is a technology in which RNA guides Cas proteins to modify targeted genes. CRISPR-Cas9 mainly achieves genome modification through three ways: gene knockout, introduction of special mutations, and site-directed transgenesis. CRISPR-Cas9-based Method, the inventor can design sgRNA and synthesize the gRNA of this sequence, and then co-express the gRNA and dCas9 in the cell, and mediate the binding of the dCas9 protein to the target DNA region through the gRNA, thereby realizing the repair or change of a specific site. 治疗非综合征型耳聋的药物Drugs for the treatment of nonsyndromic deafness 在本发明的另一个方面，本发明提出了一种用于治疗非综合征型耳聋的药物。根据本发明的实施例，所述药物含有：特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂。需要说明的是，这里的特异性改变是指能使得突变的核酸或者基因突变的位点恢复到原来的野生状态或者其他不具有致病性的状态，而对于个体基因组的其他序列不产生实质影响。如前所述，前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变与非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，由此，包含特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂的药物能有效用于治疗非综合征型耳聋。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a medicament for treating non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the medicament contains: an agent that specifically alters the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation. It should be noted that the specific change here refers to the ability to restore the mutated nucleic acid or gene mutation site to the original wild state or other non-pathogenic state, without substantial impact on other sequences of the individual genome. . As mentioned above, the aforementioned nucleic acid or aforementioned gene mutation is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, thus, the specific changes described above are included. The nucleic acid or the drug of the aforementioned gene mutation agent can be effectively used for the treatment of non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂为基于shRNA、反义核酸、核酶、显性负突变、CRISPR-Cas9、CRISPR-Cpf1和锌指核酸酶至少之一的试剂。例如，CRISPRs技术是一种由RNA指导Cas蛋白对靶向基因进行修饰的技术，CRISPR-Cas9主要通过基因敲除、特种变异的引入和定点转基因三种途径来实现基因组改造，基于CRISPR-Cas9的方法，发明人可以设计出sgRNA并合成该序列的gRNA，然后将gRNA与dCas9在细胞中共表达，通过gRNA介导dCas9蛋白与目标DNA区域结合，进而实现特定位点的修复或改变。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the reagent is a reagent based on at least one of shRNA, antisense nucleic acid, ribozyme, dominant-negative mutation, CRISPR-Cas9, CRISPR-Cpf1 and zinc finger nuclease. For example, CRISPRs technology is a technology in which RNA guides Cas proteins to modify targeted genes. CRISPR-Cas9 mainly achieves genome modification through three ways: gene knockout, introduction of special mutations, and site-directed transgenesis. CRISPR-Cas9-based Method, the inventor can design sgRNA and synthesize the gRNA of this sequence, then co-express the gRNA and dCas9 in the cell, and mediate the binding of the dCas9 protein to the target DNA region through the gRNA, thereby realizing the repair or change of a specific site. 构建体及重组细胞Constructs and recombinant cells 在本发明的又一个方面，本发明提出了一种构建体。根据本发明的实施例，所述构建体包含前面所述的核酸或前面所述的基因突变。需要说明的是，“构建体包含前面所述的核酸”表示，本发明的构建体包含与野生型LOXHD1基因相比，具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变的核酸。“构建体包含前面所述的基因突变”表示，本发明的构建体与野生型LOXHD1基因相比具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变。由此，根据本发明实施例的构建体转化受体细胞获得的重组细胞，能够有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。其中，所述受体细胞的种类不受特别限制，例如可以为大肠杆菌细胞、哺乳动物细胞，优选该受体细胞来源于哺乳动物。In yet another aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a construct. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the construct comprises the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned genetic mutation. It should be noted that 'the construct comprises the aforementioned nucleic acid' means that the construct of the present invention comprises a c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or a c.1973_2437+2del mutation compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene nucleic acid. 'The construct comprises the aforementioned genetic mutation' means that the construct of the present invention has the c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or the c.1973_2437+2del mutation compared to the wild-type LOXHD1 gene. Thus, the recombinant cells obtained by transforming the recipient cells with the constructs according to the embodiments of the present invention can be effectively used as models for related research on non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. The type of the recipient cell is not particularly limited, for example, it can be Escherichia coli cells or mammalian cells, and preferably, the recipient cell is derived from mammals. 在本发明中所使用的术语“构建体”是指这样的一种遗传载体，其包含特定核酸序列，并且能够将目的核酸序列转入宿主细胞中，以获得重组细胞。根据本发明的实施例，构建体的形式不受特别限制。根据本发明的实施例，其可以为质粒、噬菌体、人工染色体、粘粒(Cosmid)、病毒的至少一种，优选质粒。质粒作为遗传载体，具有操作简单，可以携带较大片段的性质，便于操作和处理。质粒的形式也不受特别限制，既可以是环形质粒，也可以是线性质粒，即可以是单链的，也可以是双链的。本领域技术人员可以根据需要进行选择。在本发明中所使用的术语“核酸”可以是任何包含脱氧核糖核苷酸或者核糖核苷酸的聚合物，包括但不限于经过修饰的或者未经修饰的DNA、RNA，其长度不受任何特别限制。对于用于构建重组细胞的构建体，优选所述核酸为DNA，因为DNA相对于RNA而言，其更稳定，并且易于操作。The term 'construct' as used in the present invention refers to a genetic vector comprising a specific nucleic acid sequence and capable of transferring the nucleic acid sequence of interest into a host cell to obtain a recombinant cell. According to the embodiment of the present invention, the form of the construct is not particularly limited. According to the embodiment of the present invention, it can be at least one of plasmid, phage, artificial chromosome, cosmid (Cosmid), virus, preferably a plasmid. As a genetic carrier, plasmid has the property of being simple to operate, can carry larger fragments, and is easy to operate and handle. The form of the plasmid is also not particularly limited, it can be either a circular plasmid or a linear plasmid, that is, it can be single-stranded or double-stranded. Those skilled in the art can make selections as needed. The term 'nucleic acid' as used in the present invention may be any polymer comprising deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides, including but not limited to modified or unmodified DNA, RNA, the length of which is not limited by any Special restrictions. For constructs used to construct recombinant cells, the nucleic acid is preferably DNA because DNA is more stable and easier to manipulate than RNA. 在本发明的再一个方面，本发明提出了一种重组细胞。根据本发明的实施例，所述重组细胞是通过前面所述的构建体转化受体细胞或者表达前面所述的多肽而获得的。根据本发明的一些实施例，本发明的重组细胞，能够有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。In yet another aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a recombinant cell. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the recombinant cells are obtained by transforming recipient cells with the aforementioned constructs or expressing the aforementioned polypeptides. According to some embodiments of the present invention, the recombinant cells of the present invention can be effectively used as a model for related research on non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，受体细胞的种类不受特别限制，例如可以为大肠杆菌细胞、哺乳动物细胞，优选所述受体细胞来源于非人哺乳动物。According to the embodiment of the present invention, the type of recipient cells is not particularly limited, for example, it can be E. coli cells, mammalian cells, and preferably, the recipient cells are derived from non-human mammals. 检测非综合征型耳聋的试剂盒Kits to detect non-syndromic deafness 在本发明的另一个方面，本发明提出了一种检测非综合征型耳聋的试剂盒。根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂盒中包括检测前面所述的核酸的试剂，和/或检测前面所述的基因突变的试剂，和/或检测前面所述的多肽的试剂。如前所述，前面所述的核酸、基因突变、多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而能用于包含能有效地检测前面所述的核酸或前面所述的基因突变或前面所述多肽的试剂的试剂盒能有效筛选出患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a kit for detecting non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the kit includes a reagent for detecting the aforementioned nucleic acid, and/or a reagent for detecting the aforementioned gene mutation, and/or a reagent for detecting the aforementioned polypeptide. As mentioned above, the aforementioned nucleic acids, gene mutations, and polypeptides are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and can be used to effectively detect the aforementioned nucleic acids or the aforementioned gene mutations or the aforementioned The reagent kit for the polypeptide can effectively screen out biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法Methods of screening biological samples for non-syndromic deafness 除了上述内容之外，本发明还提出了一种筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法。根据本发明的实施例，所述方法包括以下步骤：In addition to the above, the present invention also provides a method for screening biological samples with non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method includes the following steps: 从生物样品提取核酸样本；Extract nucleic acid samples from biological samples; 基于所述核酸样本，确定所述核酸样本的核酸序列；determining the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample based on the nucleic acid sample; 基于所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列，与野生型LOXHD1基因相比是否具有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变，判断所述生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋，其中，所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列，与野生型LOXHD1基因相比有c.5331+1G>C突变和/或c.1973_2437+2del突变，是所述生物样品患有非综合征型耳聋的指示。通过根据本发明实施例的筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法，可以有效地筛选患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。Based on the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample or its complementary sequence, whether the biological sample has a c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or a c.1973_2437+2del mutation compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene, it is determined whether the biological sample is non-syndromic Type deafness, wherein the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample or its complementary sequence, compared with the wild-type LOXHD1 gene, has c.5331+1G>C mutation and/or c.1973_2437+2del mutation, and the biological sample suffers from Indication of nonsyndromic deafness. By the method for screening biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness according to the embodiments of the present invention, biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be effectively screened. 首先，从生物样品提取核酸样本。根据本发明的实施例，生物样品的类型并不受特别限制，只要从该生物样品中能够提取到反映生物样品LOXHD1基因是否存在突变的核酸样本即可。根据本发明的实施例，生物样品可以为选自人体血液、皮肤、皮下组织的至少一种。由此，可以方便地进行取样和检测，从而能够进一步提高筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的效率。根据本发明的实施例，这里所使用的术语“核酸样本”应做广义理解，其可以是任何能够反映生物样品中LOXHD1基因是否存在突变的样本，例如可以是从生物样品中直接提取的全基因组DNA，也可以是该全基因组中包含LOXHD1基因编码序列的一部分，可以是从生物样品中提取的总RNA，也可以是从生物样品中提取的mRNA。根据本发明的一个实施例，所述核酸样本为全基因组DNA。由此，可以扩大生物样品的来源范围，并且可以同时对生物样品的多种信息进行确定，从而能够提高筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的效率。另外，根据本发明的实施例，针对采用RNA作为核酸样本，从生物样品提取核酸样本可以进一步包括：从生物样品提取RNA样本，优选RNA样本为mRNA；以及基于所得到的RNA样本，通过反转录反应，获得cDNA样本，所得到的cDNA样本构成核酸样本。由此，可以进一步提高利用RNA作为核酸样本筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的效率。First, a nucleic acid sample is extracted from a biological sample. According to the embodiment of the present invention, the type of the biological sample is not particularly limited, as long as a nucleic acid sample reflecting whether there is a mutation in the LOXHD1 gene of the biological sample can be extracted from the biological sample. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the biological sample may be at least one selected from human blood, skin, and subcutaneous tissue. As a result, sampling and detection can be conveniently performed, thereby further improving the efficiency of screening biological samples with non-syndromic deafness. According to the embodiment of the present invention, the term 'nucleic acid sample' used herein should be understood in a broad sense, and it can be any sample that can reflect whether there is a mutation in the LOXHD1 gene in a biological sample, for example, it can be a whole genome directly extracted from a biological sample DNA can also be a part of the whole genome containing the coding sequence of the LOXHD1 gene, can be total RNA extracted from biological samples, or can be mRNA extracted from biological samples. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid sample is whole genome DNA. As a result, the source range of biological samples can be expanded, and various information of biological samples can be determined at the same time, so that the efficiency of screening biological samples with non-syndromic deafness can be improved. In addition, according to an embodiment of the present invention, for using RNA as a nucleic acid sample, extracting a nucleic acid sample from a biological sample may further include: extracting an RNA sample from the biological sample, preferably the RNA sample is mRNA; and based on the obtained RNA sample, by inverting The transcription reaction is performed to obtain a cDNA sample, and the obtained cDNA sample constitutes a nucleic acid sample. Thus, the efficiency of screening biological samples with non-syndromic deafness using RNA as a nucleic acid sample can be further improved. 接下来，在得到核酸样本之后，可以对核酸样本进行分析，从而能够确定所得到核酸样本的核酸序列。根据本发明的实施例，确定所得到核酸样本的核酸序列的方法和设备并不受特别限制。根据本发明的具体实施例，可以通过测序方法，确定核酸样本的核酸序列。根据本发明的实施例，可以用于进行测序的方法和设备并不受特别限制。根据本发明的实施例，可以采用第二代测序技术，也可以采用第三代以及第四代或者更先进的测序技术。根据本发明的具体实施例，可以利用选BGISEQ-500、BGISEQ-500RS、HISEQ2000、SOLiD、454和单分子测序装置的至少一种对核酸序列进行测序。由此，结合最新的测序技术，针对单个位点可以达到较高的测序深度，检测灵敏度和准确性大大提高，因而能够利用这些测序装置的高通量、深度测序的特点，进一步提高对核酸样本进行检测分析的效率。从而，能够提高后续对测序数据进行分析时的精确性和准确度。由此，根据本发明的实施例，确定核酸样本的核酸序列可以进一步包括：首先，针对所得到的核酸样本，构建核酸测序文库；以及对所得到的核酸测序文库进行测序，以便获得由多个测序数据构成的测序结果。根据本发明的一些实施例，可以采用选自BGISEQ-500、BGISEQ-500RS、HISEQ2000、SOLiD、454和单分子测序装置的至少一种对所得到的核酸测序文库进行测序。另外，根据本发明的实施例，可以对核酸样本进行筛选，富集LOXHD1基因外显子，该筛选富集可以在构建测序文库之前，构建测序文库过程中，或者构建测序文库之后进行。可以采用外显子靶向序列富集系统如：华大自主外显子捕获芯片，Aglient SureSelect，Nimblegen等其他外显子或目标区域捕获平台，对目标片段进行富集。根据本发明的一个实施例，针对核酸样本，构建核酸测序文库进一步包括：利用选自LOXHD1基因特异性引物的至少一种，对核酸样本进行PCR扩增；以及针对所得到的扩增产物，构建核酸测序文库。由此，可以通过PCR扩增，富集LOXHD1基因外显子，从而能够进一步提高筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的效率。根据本发明的实施例，LOXHD1基因特异性引物的序列不受特别限制，例如可以参考人类基因组序列数据库GRCh37.1/hg19，采用Primer3.0在线设计获得，例如可以参考UCSC(http://genome.ucsc.edu/)，应用Primer3(version 0.4.0,http://primer3.ut.ee/)设计候选基因的引物并合成(生工生物工程公司合成)，并利用Primer-BLAST(http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/tools/primer-blast/)验证引物特异性。Next, after the nucleic acid sample is obtained, the nucleic acid sample can be analyzed, so that the nucleic acid sequence of the obtained nucleic acid sample can be determined. According to the embodiments of the present invention, the method and apparatus for determining the nucleic acid sequence of the obtained nucleic acid sample are not particularly limited. According to a specific embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid sequence of a nucleic acid sample can be determined by a sequencing method. According to embodiments of the present invention, methods and apparatuses that can be used to perform sequencing are not particularly limited. According to the embodiments of the present invention, the second-generation sequencing technology may be used, and the third-generation and fourth-generation or more advanced sequencing technologies may also be used. According to a specific embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid sequence can be sequenced using at least one selected from BGISEQ-500, BGISEQ-500RS, HISEQ2000, SOLiD, 454 and single-molecule sequencing devices. Therefore, combined with the latest sequencing technology, a higher sequencing depth can be achieved for a single site, and the detection sensitivity and accuracy are greatly improved. Therefore, the high-throughput and deep sequencing features of these sequencing devices can be used to further improve the detection of nucleic acid samples. Efficiency of assay analysis. Therefore, the precision and accuracy of subsequent analysis of the sequencing data can be improved. Thus, according to an embodiment of the present invention, determining the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample may further include: first, constructing a nucleic acid sequencing library for the obtained nucleic acid sample; and sequencing the obtained nucleic acid sequencing library, so as to obtain a plurality of Sequencing data consists of sequencing results. According to some embodiments of the present invention, the obtained nucleic acid sequencing library can be sequenced using at least one selected from the group consisting of BGISEQ-500, BGISEQ-500RS, HISEQ2000, SOLiD, 454, and single-molecule sequencing devices. In addition, according to embodiments of the present invention, nucleic acid samples can be screened to enrich LOXHD1 gene exons, and the screening and enrichment can be performed before, during, or after the construction of the sequencing library. Exon targeting sequence enrichment systems such as BGI's autonomous exon capture chip, Aglient SureSelect, Nimblegen and other exon or target region capture platforms can be used to enrich target fragments. According to one embodiment of the present invention, for nucleic acid samples, constructing a nucleic acid sequencing library further includes: using at least one selected from LOXHD1 gene-specific primers to perform PCR amplification on the nucleic acid samples; and for the obtained amplification products, constructing Nucleic acid sequencing libraries. Thus, the LOXHD1 gene exons can be enriched by PCR amplification, thereby further improving the efficiency of screening biological samples with non-syndromic deafness. According to the embodiments of the present invention, the sequences of the LOXHD1 gene-specific primers are not particularly limited, for example, the human genome sequence database GRCh37.1/hg19 can be referred to, and the Primer3.0 is used to design and obtain online, for example, UCSC (http://genome .ucsc.edu/), apply Primer3 (version 0.4.0, http://primer3.ut.ee/) to design and synthesize the primers of candidate genes (synthesized by Sangon Bioengineering Company), and use Primer-BLAST (http: //www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/tools/primer-blast/) to verify primer specificity. 关于针对核酸样本，构建测序文库的方法和流程，本领域技术人员可以根据不同的测序技术进行适当选择，关于流程的细节，可以参见测序仪器的厂商例如Illumina公司所提供的规程，例如参见Illumina公司Multiplexing Sample Preparation Guide(Part#1005361；Feb 2010)或Paired-End SamplePrep Guide(Part#1005063；Feb 2010)，通过参照将其并入本文。根据本发明的实施例，从生物样品提取核酸样本的方法和设备，也不受特别限制，可以采用商品化的核酸提取试剂盒进行。Regarding the methods and procedures for constructing a sequencing library for nucleic acid samples, those skilled in the art can make appropriate selections according to different sequencing technologies. For details of the procedures, please refer to the procedures provided by the manufacturers of sequencing instruments such as Illumina, for example, see Illumina Multiplexing Sample Preparation Guide (Part #1005361; Feb 2010) or Paired-End SamplePrep Guide (Part #1005063; Feb 2010), incorporated herein by reference. According to the embodiments of the present invention, the method and device for extracting nucleic acid samples from biological samples are also not particularly limited, and commercial nucleic acid extraction kits can be used. 需要说明的是，在这里所使用的术语“核酸序列”应作广义理解，其可以是在对核酸样本进行测序得到的测序数据进行组装后，得到的完整的核酸序列信息，也可以是直接采用通过对核酸样本进行测序所得到的测序数据(reads)作为核酸序列，只要这些核酸序列中含有对应LOXHD1基因的编码序列即可。It should be noted that the term 'nucleic acid sequence' used here should be understood in a broad sense. It can be the complete nucleic acid sequence information obtained after assembling the sequencing data obtained by sequencing the nucleic acid sample, or it can be directly used Sequencing data (reads) obtained by sequencing nucleic acid samples are regarded as nucleic acid sequences, as long as these nucleic acid sequences contain the coding sequence corresponding to the LOXHD1 gene. 最后，在确定核酸样本的核酸序列之后，将所得到的核酸样本的核酸序列相应的参考序列进行比对，当所得到的核酸序列中具有前述的突变时，即指示生物样品患非综合征型耳聋。由此，通过根据本发明实施例的筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法，可以有效地筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。根据本发明的实施例，对核酸序列与相应野生型基因序列进行比对的方法和设备并不受特别限制，可以采用任意常规的软件进行操作，根据本发明的具体实例，可以采用SOAPALIGNER/SOAP2进行比对。Finally, after the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample is determined, the corresponding reference sequences of the nucleic acid sequence of the obtained nucleic acid sample are compared, and when the obtained nucleic acid sequence has the aforementioned mutation, it indicates that the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness . Thus, by the method for screening biological samples with non-syndromic deafness according to the embodiments of the present invention, biological samples with non-syndromic deafness can be effectively screened. According to the embodiment of the present invention, the method and device for aligning the nucleic acid sequence with the corresponding wild-type gene sequence are not particularly limited, and any conventional software can be used for operation. According to the specific example of the present invention, SOAPALIGNER/SOAP2 can be used. Compare. 需要说明的是，根据本发明实施例的“筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法”的用途不受特别限制，例如可以用作非诊断目的的筛选方法，例如用作科研或者其他应用。It should be noted that the use of the 'method for screening biological samples with non-syndromic deafness' according to the embodiments of the present invention is not particularly limited, for example, it can be used as a screening method for non-diagnostic purposes, such as for scientific research or other applications . 下面将结合实施例对本发明的方案进行解释。本领域技术人员将会理解，下面的实施例仅用于说明本发明，而不应视为限定本发明的范围。实施例中未注明具体技术或条件的，按照本领域内的文献所描述的技术或条件或者按照产品说明书进行。所用试剂或仪器未注明生产厂商者，均为可以通过市购获得的常规产品。The solution of the present invention will be explained below in conjunction with the embodiments. Those skilled in the art will understand that the following examples are only used to illustrate the present invention, and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the present invention. If no specific technique or condition is indicated in the examples, the technique or condition described in the literature in the field or the product specification is used. The reagents or instruments used without the manufacturer's indication are conventional products that can be obtained from the market. 实施例1确定常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋致病突变Example 1 Identification of autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness pathogenic variants 1、样本搜集1. Sample collection 发明人搜集到一个中国汉族常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋患者Trio家系(父母+先证者)，其家系图见图1。其中，○表示正常女性，□表示正常男性，●表示女性患者，箭头所指为先证者。The inventors collected a Trio family (parent + proband) of a Chinese Han autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness patient, whose family diagram is shown in Figure 1. Among them, ○ indicates a normal female, □ indicates a normal male, ● indicates a female patient, and the arrow points to the proband. 如图1所示，该家系包含3名成员，父母均为正常人(即家系图中的I-1、I-2)，女儿为耳聋患者(即家系图中的II-1)，符合常染色体隐性遗传模式。As shown in Figure 1, the family consists of 3 members, the parents are normal people (i.e. I-1, I-2 in the family diagram), and the daughter is a deaf patient (i.e. II-1 in the family diagram). Chromosomal recessive inheritance pattern. 该家系中患者的纯音测听结果见图2。在图2中，横坐标表示纯音的频率，纵坐标表示听力级别，如果听力正常，阈值曲线应该是在0附近浮动的，曲线往下走表示听力下降。如图2所示，纯音测听结果显示患者II-1左耳中-重度耳聋，右耳中度耳聋，听力曲线呈高频陡峭降型。The pure-tone audiometry results of the patients in this family are shown in Figure 2. In Figure 2, the abscissa represents the frequency of the pure tone, and the ordinate represents the hearing level. If the hearing is normal, the threshold curve should float around 0, and the curve goes down to indicate hearing loss. As shown in Figure 2, the results of pure tone audiometry showed that patient II-1 had moderate-severe deafness in the left ear and moderate deafness in the right ear, and the hearing curve showed a high-frequency steep drop. 发明人收集该家系内所有成员的外周血样，加入EDTA抗凝，-80摄氏度保存。所有血样均签属知情同意书。The inventor collected peripheral blood samples of all members of the family, added EDTA for anticoagulation, and stored at -80 degrees Celsius. All blood samples signed informed consent. 2、DNA提取2. DNA extraction 取上述家系所有成员的外周血，分别利用QIAmp Bloodkit(Qiagen,Hilden,Germany)抽提外周血白细胞的基因组DNA，并利用QubitFluorometer和琼脂糖凝胶电泳测量DNA的浓度及纯度，所得的每个标本基因组DNA OD260/OD280均位于1.7-2.0之间，浓度不少于50纳克/微升，总量不少于3微克。The peripheral blood of all members of the above-mentioned family was taken, and the genomic DNA of peripheral blood leukocytes was extracted by QIAmp Bloodkit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany), and the concentration and purity of DNA were measured by QubitFluorometer and agarose gel electrophoresis. The OD260/OD280 of genomic DNA is between 1.7-2.0, the concentration is not less than 50 ng/μL, and the total amount is not less than 3 μg. 3、捕获测序3. Capture sequencing 利用芯片捕获技术，结合Illumina Hiseq 2500的高通量测序技术，对所有家系成员的样本进行测序。相应定制捕获芯片(Agilent,Santa Clara,CA,USA)的捕获范围包括127个已知的耳聋相关基因共计2268个外显子及相邻区域，捕获区域总长为619Kb。主要步骤包括超声打断、文库制备和上机测序。Using chip capture technology combined with the high-throughput sequencing technology of the Illumina Hiseq 2500, samples from all family members were sequenced. The capture range of the corresponding custom capture chip (Agilent, Santa Clara, CA, USA) includes a total of 2268 exons and adjacent regions of 127 known deafness-related genes, and the total length of the capture region is 619Kb. The main steps include sonication, library preparation, and on-board sequencing. 测序数据下机后，使用内部定制流程进行变异检测、注释以及数据库比对，根据人群频率、软件预测结果、家系分析等手段，确定候选致病位点。同时对于测序深度偏离正常范围的区域进行人工检视，对疑似存在的拷贝数变异采取qPCR方法验证。After the sequencing data is off the computer, an internal customized process is used for variant detection, annotation, and database comparison, and candidate pathogenic loci are determined based on population frequency, software prediction results, and family analysis. At the same time, the regions whose sequencing depth deviates from the normal range were manually inspected, and the suspected copy number variation was verified by qPCR method. 结果在患者的LOXHD1基因上发现杂合的c.5331+1G>C突变，同时该基因的15号外显子至17号外显子区域深度异常，疑似为杂合缺失的拷贝数变异。家系分析显示，患者的母亲和父亲分别杂合携带c.5331+1G>C突变和相同区域的疑似拷贝数变异。Results Heterozygous c.5331+1G>C mutation was found in the LOXHD1 gene of the patient. At the same time, the region of exon 15 to exon 17 of the gene was deeply abnormal, which was suspected to be a copy number variation of heterozygous deletion. Pedigree analysis showed that the patient's mother and father were heterozygous for the c.5331+1G>C mutation and the suspected copy number variation in the same region, respectively. 根据LOXHD1基因相关耳聋的隐性遗传模式，若拷贝数变异经qPCR验证为真阳性，c.5331+1G>C突变经Sanger验证为真阳性，则上述两个构成复合杂合的变异可以确认为患者的耳聋致病原因。According to the recessive inheritance pattern of LOXHD1 gene-related deafness, if the copy number variation is true positive by qPCR and the c.5331+1G>C mutation is true positive by Sanger, then the above two variants that constitute compound heterozygosity can be confirmed as The cause of the patient's deafness. 4、qPCR验证拷贝数变异4. qPCR to verify copy number variation 根据疑似发生杂合缺失区域两端的15号外显子以及17号外显子区域设计合成特异性引物，引物信息如下：Design and synthesize specific primers based on the exon 15 and exon 17 regions at both ends of the suspected heterozygous deletion region. The primer information is as follows: 15号外显子上游引物：TGATTGTCTGCCTGCTCCAC(SEQ ID NO:3)Primer upstream of exon 15: TGATTGTCTGCCTGCTCCAC (SEQ ID NO: 3) 15号外显子下游引物：GCTGTCACTGGGTAGCAACT(SEQ ID NO:4)Primer downstream of exon 15: GCTGTCACTGGGTAGCAACT (SEQ ID NO:4) 17号外显子上游引物：GTGATTGGGCATGACAGCAC(SEQ ID NO:5)Primer upstream of exon 17: GTGATTGGGCATGACAGCAC (SEQ ID NO:5) 17号外显子下游引物：GTTGGCGGGAAAGGTGTACT(SEQ ID NO:6)Primer downstream of exon 17: GTTGGCGGGAAAAGGTGTACT (SEQ ID NO:6) 采用上述特异性引物进行qPCR验证，使用the Power SYBR Green PCR MasterMix(ABI)连接实时系统对扩增引物的数据量进行量化。如图4所示，定量结果显示与正常对照样本相比，患者及父亲的LOXHD1基因15号至17号外显子区域确认存在杂合缺失的拷贝数变异。The above-mentioned specific primers were used for qPCR verification, and the Power SYBR Green PCR MasterMix (ABI) was used to connect the real-time system to quantify the data volume of the amplification primers. As shown in Figure 4, the quantitative results showed that compared with the normal control samples, the LOXHD1 gene exon 15 to 17 region of the patient and father confirmed the existence of heterozygous deletion copy number variation. 实施例2 Sanger法测序验证Example 2 Sanger sequencing verification 分别对实施例1中所述的常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋患者家系中的所有家系成员(包括患者和听力正常的父母)LOXHD1基因进行检测：针对LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变设计引物，然后通过PCR扩增、产物纯化和测序的方法获得突变位点有关序列，根据确定序列测定结果属于突变型还是野生型，验证LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变是否在样本中检出。All family members (including patients and parents with normal hearing) in the family of patients with autosomal recessive non-synthetic deafness described in Example 1 were tested for the LOXHD1 gene: c.5331+1G>C mutation for the LOXHD1 gene Design primers, and then obtain the relevant sequence of the mutation site by PCR amplification, product purification and sequencing. According to the determination of whether the sequence determination result belongs to the mutant type or the wild type, verify whether the c.5331+1G>C mutation of the LOXHD1 gene is in the sample. Check out. 具体步骤如下：Specific steps are as follows: 1、DNA提取1. DNA extraction 按照实施例1所述的DNA提取方法，提取受试者外周静脉血中的基因组DNA备用。According to the DNA extraction method described in Example 1, the genomic DNA in the peripheral venous blood of the subjects was extracted for use. 2、引物设计及PCR反应2. Primer design and PCR reaction 首先，参考人类基因组参考序列GRCh37/hg19，设计得到针对LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变的特异性引物，具体序列如下：First, referring to the human genome reference sequence GRCh37/hg19, specific primers for the c.5331+1G>C mutation of the LOXHD1 gene were designed. The specific sequences are as follows: 上游引物：GGTGGAGAGTTGCTGAGAGC(SEQ ID NO:7)Upstream primer: GGTGGAGAGTTGCTGAGAGC (SEQ ID NO:7) 下游引物：CTGAAGGAAGCCCACACCAC(SEQ ID NO:8)Downstream primer: CTGAAGGAAGCCCACACCAC (SEQ ID NO: 8) 然后，按照以下配比配制各DNA样本的PCR反应体系以及进行PCR反应：Then, prepare the PCR reaction system of each DNA sample and carry out the PCR reaction according to the following proportions: 反应体系(20μl)：Reaction system (20 μl): 试剂名称Reagent name 单个反应标准量(μL)Standard volume of a single reaction (μL) ddH<sub>2</sub>OddH<sub>2</sub>O 17.3017.30 10×Buffer10×Buffer 2.502.50 dNTP(2.5mM)dNTP (2.5mM) 2.002.00 Primer-F(10p)Primer-F(10p) 1.001.00 Primer-R(10p)Primer-R (10p) 1.001.00 Taq酶(5U/q)Taq enzyme (5U/q) 0.200.20 TotalTotal 24twenty four PCR反应条件PCR reaction conditions 由此，获得各受试者基因组DNA样本的PCR扩增产物。Thus, PCR amplification products of the genomic DNA samples of each subject were obtained. 3、Sanger测序3. Sanger sequencing 将步骤2得到的PCR产物经纯化后，直接进行DNA测序，测序使用ABI3730XL型测序仪进行。After purification of the PCR product obtained in step 2, DNA sequencing was performed directly, and the sequencing was performed using an ABI3730XL sequencer. 基于测序结果，图3显示了图1所示患者家系中所有家系成员的LOXHD1基因c.5331+1G>C突变位点的代表性Sanger测序验证峰图。如图3所示，在本发明的常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋患者Trio家系中，患者及听力正常的母亲均为LOXHD1基因c.5331+1G>C突变的杂合携带者，患者父亲为纯合野生型，显示患者的该突变来源自母亲。Based on the sequencing results, Figure 3 shows a representative Sanger sequencing-validated peak map of the LOXHD1 gene c.5331+1G>C mutation site in all family members in the patient's family shown in Figure 1. As shown in Figure 3, in the Trio family of patients with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness of the present invention, both the patient and the mother with normal hearing are heterozygous carriers of the LOXHD1 gene c.5331+1G>C mutation, and the patient's father Being homozygous wild type, the patient's mutation was shown to be of maternal origin. 图4显示了图1所示患者家系中所有家系成员的LOXHD1基因拷贝数变异的qPCR验证结果图。图4中纵坐标代表qPCR的相对定量(relative quantification,RQ)结果。如图4所示，患者与听力正常的父亲所对应样本的RQ值为对照样本的一半，表示二人携带LOXHD1115号外显子至17号外显子区域缺失的拷贝数变异，患者母亲对应样本的拷贝数正常，以上结果表明患者的该拷贝数变异来源于听力正常的父亲。Figure 4 shows the results of qPCR validation of LOXHD1 gene copy number variation in all family members of the patient's family shown in Figure 1. The ordinate in Figure 4 represents the relative quantification (RQ) results of qPCR. As shown in Figure 4, the RQ value of the sample corresponding to the patient and the father with normal hearing is half of that of the control sample, indicating that the two carry the copy number variation deleted in the region from exon 1115 to exon 17 of LOXHD, and the copy of the sample corresponding to the patient's mother The above results indicate that the patient's copy number variation originates from the father with normal hearing. 结合以上信息，可以确认LOXHD1 c.5331+1G>C突变与另一个拷贝数变异所构成的复合杂合基因型是这个隐性非综合征耳聋家系中，耳聋患者II-1的致病原因。Combined with the above information, it can be confirmed that the compound heterozygous genotype composed of LOXHD1 c.5331+1G>C mutation and another copy number variation is the pathogenic cause of deafness patient II-1 in this recessive non-syndromic deafness family. 实施例3检测试剂盒Example 3 Detection Kit 制备一种检测试剂盒，其包含能够检测LOXHD1基因的c.5331+1G>C突变的引物，用于筛选易患常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋的生物样本。相应引物为LOXHD1基因外显子特异性引物，其序列如实施例2中SEQ ID NO:7以及SEQ ID NO:8所示。A detection kit is prepared, which contains primers capable of detecting the c.5331+1G>C mutation of the LOXHD1 gene, and is used for screening biological samples susceptible to autosomal recessive non-synthetic deafness. The corresponding primers are exon-specific primers of the LOXHD1 gene, the sequences of which are shown in SEQ ID NO: 7 and SEQ ID NO: 8 in Example 2. 利用上述试剂盒筛选易患常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋的生物样品的具体步骤为：The specific steps for screening biological samples susceptible to autosomal recessive non-synthetic deafness using the above kit are: 按照实施例1的步骤2所述的方法提取待测者DNA，以所提取的DNA为模板与上述LOXHD1基因的外显子特异性引物进行PCR反应(PCR反应体系和反应条件参见实施例2，并按照本领域常规方法对PCR产物纯化，将纯化的产物进行测序。The DNA of the test subject was extracted according to the method described in step 2 of Example 1, and the extracted DNA was used as a template to carry out a PCR reaction with the exon-specific primers of the above LOXHD1 gene (see Example 2 for the PCR reaction system and reaction conditions, The PCR product is purified according to conventional methods in the art, and the purified product is sequenced. 然后通过观察测序所得到的序列是否具有c.5331+1G>C突变，能够有效地检测本发明的LOXHD1基因突变体在待测者DNA中是否存在，从而能够有效地检测待测者是否易患常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋，进一步，能够从待测者中筛选出易患常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋的生物样品。Then, by observing whether the sequence obtained by sequencing has the c.5331+1G>C mutation, it can effectively detect whether the LOXHD1 gene mutant of the present invention exists in the DNA of the test subject, so as to effectively detect whether the test subject is susceptible to the disease. For autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, further, biological samples susceptible to autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be screened from the subject to be tested. 进一步地，该试剂盒中还可以SEQ ID NO:3～SEQ ID NO:6引物序列，针对LOXHD1基因的15号外显子以及17号外显子区域进行特异性扩增，用于筛选易患非综合型耳聋的生物样品。Further, primer sequences of SEQ ID NO: 3 to SEQ ID NO: 6 can also be used in the kit to specifically amplify the regions of exon 15 and exon 17 of the LOXHD1 gene for screening susceptible non-synthetic patients. type deafness biological samples. 尽管上面已经示出和描述了本发明的实施例，可以理解的是，上述实施例是示例性的，不能理解为对本发明的限制，本领域的普通技术人员在本发明的范围内可以对上述实施例进行变化、修改、替换和变型。Although the embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described above, it should be understood that the above-mentioned embodiments are exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the present invention. Embodiments are subject to variations, modifications, substitutions and variations. SEQUENCE LISTINGSEQUENCE LISTING <110> 深圳华大基因股份有限公司，华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院<110> Shenzhen Huada Gene Co., Ltd., Union Hospital Affiliated to Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology <120> LOXHD1基因突变体及其应用<120> LOXHD1 Gene Mutants and Their Applications <130> PIDC3192818<130> PIDC3192818 <160> 8<160> 8 <170> PatentIn version 3.5<170> PatentIn version 3.5 <210> 1<210> 1 <211> 1400<211> 1400 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial Sequence<213> Artificial Sequence <220><220> <223> 野生型LOXHD1基因<223> Wild type LOXHD1 gene <400> 1<400> 1 ttttaagttg atttcacatc catttggtct ccatcacagt tttgtgagat tgcagggcta 60ttttaagttg atttcacatc catttggtct ccatcacagt tttgtgagat tgcagggcta 60 gtgttattct ccagaccaca ggtaaggaaa ccaagttcta gaaaggaact aggactattc 120gtgttattct ccagaccaca ggtaaggaaa ccaagttcta gaaaggaact aggactattc 120 taggtgactg gtagaatgag attagaaccc agcactgata cctcttggtt cggggccatt 180taggtgactg gtagaatgag attagaaccc agcactgata cctcttggtt cggggccatt 180 tctactagcc aaactcactt aacccagtct ttcaggaaca catctgggat gcaagagatg 240tctactagcc aaactcactt aacccagtct ttcaggaaca catctgggat gcaagagatg 240 ggctggtgga gagttgctga gagcagaggg gctgctgagt aaaggcctaa tcttctccct 300ggctggtgga gagttgctga gagcagaggg gctgctgagt aaaggcctaa tcttctccct 300 caccccaaac ctggcctctg gcctggccca ccccaaccct ccccaatggc cagcttccct 360caccccaaac ctggcctctg gcctggccca ccccaaccct ccccaatggc cagcttccct 360 tcttcatgcc cctcctctcc acccccaggt ttgagcggga gcagaacgac accttcatca 420tcttcatgcc cctcctctcc acccccaggt ttgagcggga gcagaacgac accttcatca 420 tggagatcct agacattgct ccattcacca agatgcggat ccggattgat ggcctgggca 480tggagatcct agacattgct ccattcacca agatgcggat ccggattgat ggcctgggca 480 gtcggccgga gtggttcctg gagagggtaa aatgtctaga ccctcactct tccttccagc 540gtcggccgga gtggttcctg gagagggtaa aatgtctaga ccctcactct tccttccagc 540 caccacccac cccttcccct ggttcctctg gcttgtcaat ggaccttgtt aaagcacaaa 600caccacccac cccttcccct ggttcctctg gcttgtcaat ggaccttgtt aaagcacaaa 600 tgtcactgta gaggatcatt acatgaaccc agcccatatg atccagtatg ccctttggca 660tgtcactgta gaggatcatt acatgaaccc agcccatatg atccagtatg ccctttggca 660 tgaattaatc agagaatgtc gttttattta tttgtgtcca gtgagaactg aagcaactgt 720tgaattaatc agagaatgtc gttttattta tttgtgtcca gtgagaactg aagcaactgt 720 caggtaatta aacaagagct gtcaacgtta cgtggacaga gacctgagaa aggggagggg 780caggtaatta aacaagagct gtcaacgtta cgtggacaga gacctgagaa aggggagggg 780 tggtgtgggc ttccttcagg acagcagctg ggagggttga gagaggagga gcaaggcctg 840tggtgtgggc ttccttcagg acagcagctg ggagggttga gagaggagga gcaaggcctg 840 gggcagagag aggctgccat ggtgggaact tcaggcagga tggcagaaag cttactgggg 900gggcagagag aggctgccat ggtgggaact tcaggcagga tggcagaaag cttactgggg 900 cctctgtgat cacggagtta ggcagctgct tctttttcca ttgtgggcct ctgagtctga 960cctctgtgat cacggagtta ggcagctgct tctttttcca ttgtgggcct ctgagtctga 960 gcttggccgt cagcaccctg cctgaggaac ctggatcctt aagctctcag ttgggctgaa 1020gcttggccgt cagcaccctg cctgaggaac ctggatcctt aagctctcag ttgggctgaa 1020 gccagccttg gggatgggat gctgggatct tcaaggagca acagcagcgt gggatttctt 1080gccagccttg gggatgggat gctgggatct tcaaggagca acagcagcgt gggatttctt 1080 agttctgcct ccatcctccc gcttttccca gcatacatat gcatgggcac atatgcacac 1140agttctgcct ccatcctccc gcttttccca gcatacatat gcatgggcac atatgcacac 1140 acatacatgc acatggccac agactcagtt tccaccaaga aaggaaggca gctgctcctt 1200acatacatgc acatggccac agactcagtt tccaccaaga aaggaaggca gctgctcctt 1200 ctcaggacct ctcatcactt cctcaccttc cccagctgtg cggctctgtg ccttcaggct 1260ctcaggacct ctcatcactt cctcaccttc cccagctgtg cggctctgtg ccttcaggct 1260 gcccagagga gagtcattaa cacttgctgc tccagggcag agagaagagc gtccacggca 1320gcccagagga gagtcattaa cacttgctgc tccagggcag agagaagagc gtccacggca 1320 tagggccaag ctgcactcat tttgatgaga accactgtga tgttaggagt ccaagggctt 1380tagggccaag ctgcactcat tttgatgaga accactgtga tgttaggagt ccaagggctt 1380 tccatgctaa gagtggctcc 1400tccatgctaa gagtggctcc 1400 <210> 2<210> 2 <211> 6300<211> 6300 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial Sequence<213> Artificial Sequence <220><220> <223> 野生型LOXHD1基因<223> Wild type LOXHD1 gene <400> 2<400> 2 ggtctccttc ccaagaccat gtgacatcat cctacccatt ccccaaggag ttccctgccc 60ggtctccttc ccaagaccat gtgacatcat cctacccatt ccccaaggag ttccctgccc 60 tccttccaat ctcagccaaa caccactgcc tccgggaagt cctcctttcc cactccaggc 120tccttccaat ctcagccaaa caccactgcc tccgggaagt cctcctttcc cactccaggc 120 taggatgttt tgctagatgc tcccatagaa tcatttcact ttgctaaagt caaagctctg 180taggatgttt tgctagatgc tcccatagaa tcatttcact ttgctaaagt caaagctctg 180 ggcctccata gtgactctgc atgaatgggt gaagctttga ttgtctgcct gctccaccca 240ggcctccata gtgactctgc atgaatgggt gaagctttga ttgtctgcct gctccaccca 240 aagagctaac attcccccat ttgcccacca ggtggttgga caaggataag gatgatgggc 300aagagctaac attcccccat ttgcccacca ggtggttgga caaggataag gatgatgggc 300 agctggtccg agagttgcta cccagtgaca gcagcgcgac actgaagagt gagttgtcct 360agctggtccg agagttgcta cccagtgaca gcagcgcgac actgaagagt gagttgtcct 360 gatgaccagg tgctgggtgt gcccttggtg agacaggggc cttccctcag ctaagccctt 420gatgaccagg tgctgggtgt gcccttggtg agacaggggc cttccctcag ctaagccctt 420 caagaaaaca cgagcacttc atgtttcaca gaggtggcag tggggaggga ggagagggag 480caagaaaaca cgagcacttc atgtttcaca gaggtggcag tggggaggga ggagagggag 480 gctccgaggg agtgtctgga gagttcctgc ctgtgctcct gcacacagtc tctttgtggc 540gctccgaggg agtgtctgga gagttcctgc ctgtgctcct gcacacagtc tctttgtggc 540 ctcaggtgtg aggccctgaa tgcatatggg tcaacgagag tgatgagcag taatgctggc 600ctcaggtgtg aggccctgaa tgcatatggg tcaacgagag tgatgagcag taatgctggc 600 caatggtgcc aagcattggc agtacctgtc attcaggcct taagaagaga aatattttga 660caatggtgcc aagcattggc agtacctgtc attcaggcct taagaagaga aatattttga 660 agggactgta aaatagggac tttaaaaatg ccaagtatca tcttggaggc cttagagttt 720agggactgta aaatagggac tttaaaaatg ccaagtatca tcttggaggc cttagagttt 720 tccttactgg tgacatttct tccattgctt tggtttgatc atgagcttta gacaaaatta 780tccttactgg tgacatttct tccattgctt tggtttgatc atgagcttta gacaaaatta 780 aaagaaactt atctctagaa tccttgacat taccaacacc tcatgtttgt catttattat 840aaagaaactt atctctagaa tccttgacat taccaacacc tcatgtttgt catttattat 840 ctcatttgag ctctgcaata atcccagaag atggtcaggg ttgatgttgt ccatgggtca 900ctcatttgag ctctgcaata atcccagaag atggtcaggg ttgatgttgt ccatgggtca 900 gatggagaaa cttagaaccg gaagagctga agatattttt atttttgttt atttgtttat 960gatggagaaa cttagaaccg gaagagctga agatattttt atttttgttt atttgtttat 960 ttttgaaaca gggtcttact ctgtcaacga ggctggagtg cagtggtgtg attttggctc 1020ttttgaaaca gggtcttact ctgtcaacga ggctggagtg cagtggtgtg attttggctc 1020 attgcagcct cagcctccta ggctcaggtg atcctcctgt ctcagcctcc tgagtagcta 1080attgcagcct cagcctccta ggctcaggtg atcctcctgt ctcagcctcc tgagtagcta 1080 gggcaatagg tgtacatcac cacacctggc taatttttat attttttttc tacagatggg 1140gggcaatagg tgtacatcac cacacctggc taatttttat atttttttttc tacagatggg 1140 gtctctttat gttgtccagg ctggtctcaa actcctgggt tcaaatgatc cacccacctt 1200gtctctttat gttgtccagg ctggtctcaa actcctgggt tcaaatgatc cacccacctt 1200 ggccacccaa agtgctggga ttagaggcat gagccacggc acccggcagc taaagatatt 1260ggccacccaa agtgctggga ttagaggcat gagccacggc acccggcagc taaagatatt 1260 tgtatctgac ctcttctaag gtcagactgc tgactttgaa ctagagtgtc ccatttctgg 1320tgtatctgac ctcttctaag gtcagactgc tgactttgaa ctagagtgtc ccatttctgg 1320 tctcagaatt acagaattta agatctggga aggatcccag gagataagat gcctgtggca 1380tctcagaatt acagaattta agatctggga aggatcccag gagataagat gcctgtggca 1380 aaaggacccc tattccccct ccacaacccc agcaaaccca gttgtgtagt cagtgatggg 1440aaaggacccc tattccccct ccacaacccc agcaaaccca gttgtgtagt cagtgatggg 1440 gctgggacca gtacccaggg tatctctgtc tatgtcactg tccttcccag tccagcaagc 1500gctgggacca gtacccaggg tatctctgtc tatgtcactg tccttcccag tccagcaagc 1500 ccctatttca ccatgtggac aggacctcct gaccccctgc ttcctcagtc agagcgtctg 1560ccctatttca ccatgtggac aggacctcct gaccccctgc ttcctcagtc agagcgtctg 1560 aaagcgttta gatcaagctt gtccaaccca cagcccgcac gcatgtggcc cacgacggct 1620aaagcgttta gatcaagctt gtccaaccca cagcccgcac gcatgtggcc cacgacggct 1620 ttgaatgtgg cccaacacaa atttgtaaac tttcttaaaa cataaaactt ttttgcaatt 1680ttgaatgtgg cccaacacaa atttgtaaac tttcttaaaa cataaaactt ttttgcaatt 1680 tttttaactc atcagctatc atttgtatta gtgtattttt tgtgtggccc aagacaattc 1740tttttaactc atcagctatc atttgtatta gtgtattttt tgtgtggccc aagacaattc 1740 ttcttcttcc agtgtggccc agggaaacca aaagattgaa cacccctggt tgagatggaa 1800ttcttcttcc agtgtggccc agggaaacca aaagattgaa cacccctggt tgagatggaa 1800 aatagtacaa gaaagaggtc tccttcccag tctctgctgc tacatctttc agcaagaata 1860aatagtacaa gaaagaggtc tccttcccag tctctgctgc tacatctttc agcaagaata 1860 gaggccattt cctcaagtgc ccttgggtgg cactaatgga gctgatctgg agcagacctg 1920gaggccattt cctcaagtgc ccttgggtgg cactaatgga gctgatctgg agcagacctg 1920 caggtctggc cttctccagg gctggtccct aggcaaggtg tgctcagctg actttctcca 1980caggtctggc cttctccagg gctggtccct aggcaaggtg tgctcagctg actttctcca 1980 aatccttctg cctagtggga ggaccctacg gtgtcagtga gtggcaggcc tgggagtgag 2040aatccttctg cctagtggga ggaccctacg gtgtcagtga gtggcaggcc tgggagtgag 2040 catcactcac ctttccagtg cttcctcctc tttgcccaag acacacaccc aggaacaagc 2100catcactcac ctttccagtg cttcctcctc tttgcccaag acacacaccc aggaacaagc 2100 ctggaggact tggggtcttg ccttgtatta ttccaggact caccttttcc tcgggtgttt 2160ctggaggact tggggtcttg ccttgtatta ttccaggact caccttttcc tcgggtgttt 2160 ttgtccctga agaccgataa tgcagacatt cctggctgat aaaatggagt gacaccctcg 2220ttgtccctga agaccgataa tgcagacatt cctggctgat aaaatggagt gacaccctcg 2220 tggtggccca gtgaagagca gggggtttca agtccacatg agagtttcac tcctggcgac 2280tggtggccca gtgaagagca gggggtttca agtccacatg agagtttcac tcctggcgac 2280 ctcttaactg ttgccatctt gcaccaaaca catgacattc tgaggctcag attccttgcc 2340ctcttaactg ttgccatctt gcaccaaaca catgacattc tgaggctcag attccttgcc 2340 tgtgaaactg gggtcagaat ccttagcaat aataccatgt gtataatgct ctagacactg 2400tgtgaaactg gggtcagaat ccttagcaat aataccatgt gtataatgct ctagacactg 2400 tctggaaagg ttgatccttc ctttgtctca gtttccttgt ccactgtcag agaagctaga 2460tctggaaagg ttgatccttc ctttgtctca gtttccttgt ccactgtcag agaagctaga 2460 ccagatgatt gtgggaaatc ctttcaggct cttatgtttt gatgttcttg cttgtgattt 2520ccagatgatt gtgggaaatc ctttcaggct cttgtttt gatgttcttg cttgtgattt 2520 acacgctttc ctgctctaag cccattcaca ccttctggag cagacagaga acctactaga 2580acacgctttc ctgctctaag cccattcaca ccttctggag cagacagaga acctactaga 2580 attctgccat tacagttgag gagacctcac agagatggaa ggaacccctg ccccaagttg 2640attctgccat tacagttgag gagacctcac agagatggaa ggaacccctg ccccaagttg 2640 cagggctgct tagaacagga gcctggattt tcaattccca gcgtgtgttc cccacaaacc 2700cagggctgct tagaacagga gcctggattt tcaattccca gcgtgtgttc cccacaaacc 2700 tccagctcca ggctgccctc ctatacacgc accctgcttc ctgtcacccc ctgcactaac 2760tccagctcca ggctgccctc ctatacacgc accctgcttc ctgtcacccc ctgcactaac 2760 cccttccctt cctccctctg ccttgggctg ttcagacttt cgctatcaca tcagcttgaa 2820cccttccctt cctccctctg ccttgggctg ttcagacttt cgctatcaca tcagcttgaa 2820 gactggggat gtctctgggg ccagcacgga ttctagagtc tacatcaagc tctatgggga 2880gactggggat gtctctgggg ccagcacgga ttctagagtc tacatcaagc tctatgggga 2880 taaatctgac accatcaagc aagttcttct tgtctctgac aacaacctca aagactactt 2940taaatctgac accatcaagc aagttcttct tgtctctgac aacaacctca aagactactt 2940 tgaacgtggc cgggtggatg agttcaccct cgagaccctg aacattggaa atgtaagtct 3000tgaacgtggc cgggtggatg agttcaccct cgagaccctg aacattggaa atgtaagtct 3000 ccttcccaag accatgtgac atcatcccac ccatttccga acacacattc acacgtgtcc 3060ccttcccaag accatgtgac atcatcccac ccatttccga acacacattc acacgtgtcc 3060 acacacacat atgtccacac acagacacac acgcacacac tcatgtacat aagggtaaac 3120acacacacat atgtccacac acagacacac acgcacacac tcatgtacat aagggtaaac 3120 acattttgaa gagaaaaagc acacttggga atagtgagtg aggtgtgtag ttttttagct 3180acattttgaa gagaaaaagc acacttggga atagtgagtg aggtgtgtag ttttttagct 3180 gtgacctaga gcagctgaag atatgtaaac agtagtgatg cttccagagc ctctttgggg 3240gtgacctaga gcagctgaag atatgtaaac agtagtgatg cttccagagc ctctttgggg 3240 ctggaatgtg tatttttagt ggcattgcct caacatttta tttacctaca tatccaagac 3300ctggaatgtg tatttttagt ggcattgcct caacatttta tttacctaca tatccaagac 3300 caatgtacct gggtcacaga cactggagaa ggagactgaa cgcagggaag gaaaagagaa 3360caatgtacct gggtcacaga cactggagaa ggagactgaa cgcagggaag gaaaagagaa 3360 gggaggacta agaaaagggg ctaaaaatac ttcccaattt caaacttgag tgtgcatcag 3420gggaggacta agaaaagggg ctaaaaatac ttcccaattt caaacttgag tgtgcatcag 3420 aattggggcc aggaagcttg tttcagtgca cacttctggg ccacacctga gagattctgt 3480aattggggcc aggaagcttg tttcagtgca cacttctggg ccacacctga gagattctgt 3480 cttgggagat ggaacccaag agcctccaga tcaaggctcc aggtgactct gctgcaagtg 3540cttgggat ggaacccaag agcctccaga tcaaggctcc aggtgactct gctgcaagtg 3540 gtctaagcac ttcatcaaag agaaagctga acagtaaagc agcaaagaca gactttaatc 3600gtctaagcac ttcatcaaag agaaagctga acagtaaagc agcaaagaca gactttaatc 3600 agtaatctac cactgccatc aggaaaagag gccagtgtga actgaaccca acttaggttt 3660agtaatctac cactgccatc aggaaaagag gccagtgtga actgaaccca acttaggttt 3660 gtgcagaggt ttgcaaacct ctttaaaggg aggatgaggg aataagggga gggtaatcaa 3720gtgcagaggt ttgcaaacct ctttaaaggg aggatgaggg aataagggga gggtaatcaa 3720 gggctcagta gagtcagggg gaaaacatga aaagcagtaa tggggaggtc agcacatgtg 3780gggctcagta gagtcagggg gaaaacatga aaagcagtaa tggggaggtc agcacatgtg 3780 ggttgtggaa cccatctggg tttgctaact gatgctttat ggcatgaggg tcttatcctt 3840ggttgtggaa cccatctggg tttgctaact gatgctttat ggcatgaggg tcttatcctt 3840 caagagtctg gcagacagaa gccctaccct caggtgttgg ctggaaccaa cagtaaatta 3900caagagtctg gcagacagaa gccctaccct caggtgttgg ctggaaccaa cagtaaatta 3900 ttttgacagc cttgagtttt ctaaggcaag cacagtaagg gggattaggg tcactctagg 3960ttttgacagc cttgagttttt ctaaggcaag cacagtaagg gggattaggg tcactctagg 3960 gatgtggcct tgagctgtta gaaactgtgt tagtgttttg ttcaagtctt tataggccaa 4020gatgtggcct tgagctgtta gaaactgtgt tagtgttttg ttcaagtctt tataggccaa 4020 gattgaggct gagaaagggt tcaggagcct ggctagagtt tggccaaggt gagaatcttc 4080gattgaggct gagaaagggt tcaggagcct ggctagagtt tggccaaggt gagaatcttc 4080 cttgacatca cctggagaaa cacagttcta aatcttggac ttgaggattg gggatgtctc 4140cttgacatca cctggagaaa cacagttcta aatcttggac ttgaggattg gggatgtctc 4140 tagaaatgcc tgagctggga tttttgttac tacctgctgc tcccagggtg tggcttggtg 4200tagaaatgcc tgagctggga tttttgttac tacctgctgc tcccagggtg tggcttggtg 4200 gaaatggaga tggtaacaag ccctctacct ggaacctcat ctttcctgcc ccttccctct 4260gaaatggaga tggtaacaag ccctctacct ggaacctcat ctttcctgcc ccttccctct 4260 ctgggagtcc caccctattt caggtcctag gaatctcttc tcccatcaaa actcactcca 4320ctgggagtcc caccctattt caggtcctag gaatctcttc tcccatcaaa actcactcca 4320 gggaaagatc tcatgttagt catttatacc ttgaggttaa tgaacttaaa tcaatgtttt 4380gggaaagatc tcatgttagt catttatacc ttgaggttaa tgaacttaaa tcaatgtttt 4380 catttatcaa gatgtattta cattttaagc tgaatcaata attgcagagt gaaaatgctg 4440catttatcaa gatgtattta cattttaagc tgaatcaata attgcagagt gaaaatgctg 4440 ttccctttac taaaggattt tgggcagcag ctggcgggta agttagacct ctaggaagag 4500ttccctttac taaaggattt tgggcagcag ctggcgggta agttagacct ctaggaagag 4500 tagggtggca gtgggagggc atttaagctt cttcctgagt ttccgaaacc ccctcaacaa 4560tagggtggca gtgggagggc atttaagctt cttcctgagt ttccgaaacc ccctcaacaa 4560 gcagcatggc caagaggctg ggagcatggg ctctggctgc caaccgcata tttgagaccc 4620gcagcatggc caagaggctg ggagcatggg ctctggctgc caaccgcata tttgagaccc 4620 atttccactt acctgccata tgtaagttat ttaacctctg tttgcctccg ttttctcatt 4680atttccactt acctgccata tgtaagttat ttaacctctg tttgcctccg ttttctcatt 4680 cataacaaca tgagatacta atggggttgc tattagtatt aaatatgtga ataacaccca 4740cataacaaca tgagatacta atggggttgc tattagtatt aaatatgtga ataacaccca 4740 catgctcata ctaagtgctg agtaaatgct actgaacaat tagtctatgt caggtgtgaa 4800catgctcata ctaagtgctg agtaaatgct actgaacaat tagtctatgt caggtgtgaa 4800 gtgttgtaga actgagctag tgtctgccct tagggagcat ccagtcatat cagacactta 4860gtgttgtaga actgagctag tgtctgccct tagggagcat ccagtcatat cagacactta 4860 cctctgtctt taccctttca gccaatccct ccctgggact ttcatagtcc tggcaccaca 4920cctctgtctt taccctttca gccaatccct ccctgggact ttcatagtcc tggcaccaca 4920 gaagaacaac aaaactcttc cctgtccctt gacatgcaca cagagggctc tcaggctttg 4980gaagaacaac aaaactcttc cctgtccctt gacatgcaca cagagggctc tcaggctttg 4980 taagcttagc tggttttctt ctgataattc caggggactg ggctgcatgc acttagctct 5040taagcttagc tggttttctt ctgataattc caggggactg ggctgcatgc acttagctct 5040 gacgttgttg ccattaccag ctgcaaagag gcacttagga ctcagaagag caagagcagg 5100gacgttgttg ccattaccag ctgcaaagag gcacttagga ctcagaagag caagagcagg 5100 ctcgcatgga cagttttcta aatctggcct tttggcacca gactcatggc taacatcacc 5160ctcgcatgga cagttttcta aatctggcct tttggcacca gactcatggc taacatcacc 5160 tcttcaaacc attgcagaga gaatctcagg gctggaaggg ttctcaaagg ccatctgata 5220tcttcaaacc attgcagaga gaatctcagg gctggaaggg ttctcaaagg ccatctgata 5220 attccatctg atgttaaaat tgctctgtat acagcatttc aaaaagaaaa aacataaaag 5280attccatctg atgttaaaat tgctctgtat acagcatttc aaaaagaaaa aacataaaag 5280 caatccaaac attgaaaaac caagtacata taaggatggt gatatgatca tctgcactcc 5340caatccaaac attgaaaaac caagtacata taaggatggt gatatgatca tctgcactcc 5340 cctctatgtt gcccatgggg gcaaagatgt taaaatgcaa aatcgcaaag caattataga 5400cctctatgtt gcccatgggg gcaaagatgt taaaatgcaa aatcgcaaag caattataga 5400 gtgttattgg aaaaagaaaa gtgttccttg ggtccaagag tgagcagagg aattggacac 5460gtgttattgg aaaaagaaaa gtgttccttg ggtccaagag tgagcagagg aattggacac 5460 agaaccgcag agtcctgaga ggttgcctgc atagtctgtc accttcagga tgggtgatat 5520agaaccgcag agtcctgaga ggttgcctgc atagtctgtc accttcagga tgggtgatat 5520 tctgtcacct tcaggatggg tatgttgaag aaatgcagaa atatatacaa ctgtgtattg 5580tctgtcacct tcaggatggg tatgttgaag aaatgcagaa atatatacaa ctgtgtattg 5580 ttcaaaacca aaccaaatca ataacacagt tattggaagg tgatggcaaa cattttaaac 5640ttcaaaacca aaccaaatca ataacacagt tattggaagg tgatggcaaa cattttaaac 5640 atttgctttc tcacatggcc atgacctaac atgattaagt actagtggag ctttcaaatt 5700atttgctttc tcacatggcc atgacctaac atgattaagt actagtggag ctttcaaatt 5700 ttgtgtcacc tccactcccc tcttgtttct cactatggcc ctgggaggtg tgctgggctt 5760ttgtgtcacc tccactcccc tcttgtttct cactatggcc ctgggaggtg tgctgggctt 5760 aggagaaggg aatggtggct acaggcaggt gaggtgatgc cctggtgccc cagctggctg 5820aggagaaggg aatggtggct acaggcaggt gaggtgatgc cctggtgccc cagctggctg 5820 atggtggggc aggaatggga ttccagcttt cccatggatc ttccctctcc tggggactgg 5880atggtggggc aggaatggga ttccagcttt cccatggatc ttccctctcc tggggactgg 5880 agacctgggt tgtgttttgt gctggtgttt ggggaggtag ggatgggatc atggaggttt 5940agacctgggt tgtgttttgt gctggtgttt ggggaggtag ggatgggatc atggaggttt 5940 ctacacactg gctccttgct caccctcact cgggtttcct tcagatcaac cggctggtga 6000ctacacactg gctccttgct caccctcact cgggtttcct tcagatcaac cggctggtga 6000 ttgggcatga cagcactggc atgcatgcca gctggttcct gggcagcgtt cagatccgtg 6060ttgggcatga cagcactggc atgcatgcca gctggttcct gggcagcgtt cagatccgtg 6060 tgccccgtca aggcaagcag tacacctttc ccgccaaccg ctggctggac aagaaccagg 6120tgccccgtca aggcaagcag tacacctttc ccgccaaccg ctggctggac aagaaccagg 6120 ctgacgggcg cctggaggtg gagctgtatc ccagcgaggt ggtggagatc cagaaatgta 6180ctgacgggcg cctggaggtg gagctgtatc ccagcgaggt ggtggagatc cagaaatgta 6180 tggaggaggc tgtggtggga ccacccattg tttcccatgg gggatggggc tgaggggaag 6240tggaggaggc tgtggtggga ccacccattg tttcccatgg gggatggggc tgaggggaag 6240 gaggagggac catggggcaa agcaggtctt gctgacaagt gctgctggta gggtcctgca 6300gaggagggac catggggcaa agcaggtctt gctgacaagt gctgctggta gggtcctgca 6300 <210> 3<210> 3 <211> 20<211> 20 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial Sequence<213> Artificial Sequence <220><220> <223> 15号外显子上游引物<223> Exon 15 upstream primer <400> 3<400> 3 tgattgtctg cctgctccac 20tgattgtctg cctgctccac 20 <210> 4<210> 4 <211> 20<211> 20 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial Sequence<213> Artificial Sequence <220><220> <223> 15号外显子下游引物<223> Primer downstream of exon 15 <400> 4<400> 4 gctgtcactg ggtagcaact 20gctgtcactg ggtagcaact 20 <210> 5<210> 5 <211> 20<211> 20 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial Sequence<213> Artificial Sequence <220><220> <223> 17号外显子上游引物<223> Exon 17 upstream primer <400> 5<400> 5 gtgattgggc atgacagcac 20gtgattgggc atgacagcac 20 <210> 6<210> 6 <211> 20<211> 20 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial Sequence<213> Artificial Sequence <220><220> <223> 17号外显子下游引物<223> Primer downstream of exon 17 <400> 6<400> 6 gttggcggga aaggtgtact 20gttggcggga aaggtgtact 20 <210> 7<210> 7 <211> 20<211> 20 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial Sequence<213> Artificial Sequence <220><220> <223> 上游引物<223> Upstream primer <400> 7<400> 7 ggtggagagt tgctgagagc 20ggtggagagt tgctgagagc 20 <210> 8<210> 8 <211> 20<211> 20 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial Sequence<213> Artificial Sequence <220><220> <223> 下游引物<223> Downstream Primers <400> 8<400> 8 ctgaaggaag cccacaccac 20ctgaaggaag cccacaccac 20

### Claims

Claims (3) 1. An application of a reagent for detecting LOXHD1 gene mutation in preparing an auxiliary diagnostic kit for autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, wherein the accession number of a wild type LOXHD1 gene in an NCBI database is NG _016646.2, and the LOXHD1 gene mutation is c.5331+1G > C mutation and c.1973_2437+2del mutation. 2. Use according to claim 1, wherein said reagents comprise probes and/or primers specific for the detection of said gene mutation. 3. The use of claim 1, wherein said reagents comprise specific primers for detecting the c.5331+1G > C mutation of the LOXHD1 gene, the sequences of said specific primers being as follows: an upstream primer: GGTGGAGAGTTGCTGAGAGC the flow of the air in the air conditioner, a downstream primer: CTGAAGGAAGCCCACACCAC are provided.
