## Patent Reference

- Title: MPZL2 gene mutant and application thereof
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN116694643A/en

### Abstract

Abstract Translated from Chinese 本发明涉及分离的核酸、基因突变、分离的蛋白质及其在制备试剂盒中的用途、生物模型在筛选药物中的用途、用于治疗常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的药物、筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的系统和试剂盒、构建体和重组细胞。其中，与SEQ ID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del；和/或与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T。通过检测该分离的核酸在生物样品中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋型。The present invention relates to isolated nucleic acids, gene mutations, isolated proteins and their use in the preparation of kits, the use of biological models in drug screening, drugs for the treatment of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, screening for patients with Systems and kits, constructs and recombinant cells for biological samples of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Wherein, compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the following: c.393_436+21del; and/or the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 Compared to the sequence, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the group consisting of: c.220C>T. By detecting whether the isolated nucleic acid exists in the biological sample, it can effectively detect whether the biological sample suffers from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness.

### Description

Description Translated from Chinese MPZL2基因突变体及其应用MPZL2 Gene Mutant and Its Application 技术领域technical field 本发明涉及生物领域。具体地，本发明涉及MPZL2基因突变体及其应用.The present invention relates to the field of biology. Specifically, the present invention relates to MPZL2 gene mutants and applications thereof. 背景技术Background technique 耳聋(hearing loss,HL)是最常见的感官功能障碍类疾病，相当一部分的耳聋患者的发病与遗传因素有关。通过基因检测手段确定耳聋发病的分子机制，从而进一步采取产前基因诊断和干预措施，是降低耳聋发生率的有效手段，也是耳聋防治的根本途径之一。根据是否有并发的其他临床表型，遗传性耳聋可分为综合征型耳聋(syndromic hearingloss,SHL)和非综合征型耳聋(non-syndromic hearing loss,NSHL)。Deafness (hearing loss, HL) is the most common sensory dysfunction disease, and a considerable number of deafness patients are related to genetic factors. Determining the molecular mechanism of deafness through genetic testing, and then taking further prenatal genetic diagnosis and intervention measures, is an effective means to reduce the incidence of deafness, and it is also one of the fundamental ways to prevent and treat deafness. According to whether there are other concurrent clinical phenotypes, hereditary deafness can be divided into syndromic hearing loss (SHL) and non-syndromic hearing loss (NSHL). 非综合征型耳聋在先天性遗传性耳聋中占70％左右，其中又有75％-80％为常染色体隐性遗传(autosomal recessive,AR)。由不同致病基因导致的非综合征型耳聋在发病年龄、听力损失程度、进行性等方面存在明显差异。确定耳聋发病的致病基因有助于为患者选取合适的听力干预手段，更好地提高耳聋患者的生活质量。虽然目前已发现一些非综合征型耳聋的致病基因，但仍存在着相当一部分未知致病基因位点。Non-syndromic deafness accounts for about 70% of congenital hereditary deafness, of which 75%-80% are autosomal recessive (autosomal recessive, AR). Non-syndromic deafness caused by different pathogenic genes has obvious differences in age of onset, degree of hearing loss, and progressiveness. Determining the causative gene of deafness will help to select appropriate hearing interventions for patients and better improve the quality of life of deaf patients. Although some causative genes of non-syndromic deafness have been discovered, there are still a considerable number of unknown causative gene loci. 因而，目前对非综合征型耳聋的研究仍有待深入。Therefore, the current research on non-syndromic deafness still needs to be in-depth. 发明内容Contents of the invention 本发明旨在至少在一定程度上解决现有技术中存在的技术问题至少之一。The present invention aims to solve at least one of the technical problems existing in the prior art at least to a certain extent. 需要说明的是，本发明是基于发明人的下列发现而完成的：It should be noted that the present invention is based on the inventor's following findings: 全外显子测序(Whole-exome sequencing，WES)是应用频率最高的基因组测序方法。外显子是人基因组的蛋白编码区域，利用序列捕获技术可以将其DNA捕获并且富集。虽然外显子区域仅占全基因组1％左右，却包含了85％的致病突变。相比全基因组测序，全外显子测序更加经济、高效。外显子组测序主要用于识别和研究与疾病、种群进化相关的编码区及UTR区域内的突变。结合大量的公共数据库提供的外显子数据，有利于更好地解释所得突变与疾病的关系。Whole-exome sequencing (WES) is the most frequently used genome sequencing method. Exons are protein-coding regions of the human genome, and their DNA can be captured and enriched using sequence capture technology. Although the exon region only accounts for about 1% of the whole genome, it contains 85% of the pathogenic mutations. Compared with whole genome sequencing, whole exome sequencing is more economical and efficient. Exome sequencing is mainly used to identify and study mutations in coding regions and UTR regions related to diseases and population evolution. Combined with exome data provided by a large number of public databases, it is beneficial to better explain the relationship between the resulting mutation and disease. 因而，发明人针对自行收集的一例耳聋Trio家系(父母+先证者)，通过全外显子测序、家系分析联合Sanger测序验证的方法进行致病变异检测和验证。最终，根据各项检测结果，发明人确定了MPZL2基因上2个新的致病突变位点c.393_436+21del和c.220C>T，从而通过检测该核酸突变在生物样本中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。Therefore, the inventors detected and verified the pathogenic variants through whole exome sequencing, family analysis combined with Sanger sequencing verification for a deafness Trio family (parents + proband) collected by the inventor. Finally, according to various test results, the inventor determined two new pathogenic mutation sites c.393_436+21del and c.220C>T on the MPZL2 gene, so that by detecting whether the nucleic acid mutation exists in biological samples, it can be Efficient detection of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness in biological samples. 为此，在本发明的第一个方面，本发明提出了一种分离的核酸。根据本发明的实施例，与SEQ ID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del；和/或与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T。发明人发现，MPZL2基因的上述两个突变与常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而通过检测该核酸在生物样本中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。To this end, in a first aspect of the invention, the invention proposes an isolated nucleic acid. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from: c.393_436+21del; and/or the mutation shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 Compared to the nucleotide sequence shown, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from: c.220C>T. The inventors found that the above two mutations of the MPZL2 gene are closely related to the onset of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, so by detecting whether the nucleic acid exists in the biological sample, it can effectively detect whether the biological sample has autosomal recessive deafness. Sexual non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，所述分离的核酸为DNA。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the isolated nucleic acid is DNA. 在本发明的第二方面，本发明提出了一种基因突变。根据本发明的实施例，与SEQID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del；和/或与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T。发明人发现，MPZL2基因编码区具有2个突变位点c.393_436+21del和c.220C>T，该突变与常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而通过检测该核酸在生物样本中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。In a second aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a gene mutation. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the following: c.393_436+21del; and/or the mutation shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 Compared with the nucleotide sequence of , the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the group consisting of: c.220C>T. The inventors found that the coding region of the MPZL2 gene has two mutation sites, c.393_436+21del and c.220C>T, which are closely related to the onset of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Whether it exists in the sample can effectively detect whether the biological sample suffers from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第三方面，本发明提出了一种分离的蛋白质。根据本发明的实施例，所述分离的蛋白质由前面所述分离的核酸编码获得。发明人发现，MPZL2基因编码区具有突变位点c.393_436+21del和/或c.220C>T，该突变与常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而通过检测该核酸编码的蛋白质在生物样本中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。In a third aspect of the invention, the invention provides an isolated protein. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the isolated protein is encoded by the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid. The inventors found that the coding region of the MPZL2 gene has mutation sites c.393_436+21del and/or c.220C>T, which are closely related to the onset of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, so by detecting the nucleic acid encoded Whether the protein exists in the biological sample can effectively detect whether the biological sample suffers from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第四方面，本发明提出了检测前面所述的分离的核酸或前面所述的基因突变或前面所述的分离的蛋白质的试剂在制备试剂盒中的用途。根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂盒用于诊断患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。由此，通过检测该核酸或者蛋白质在生物样本中是否存在，可以有效地诊断是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。In the fourth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of the reagent for detecting the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation or the aforementioned isolated protein in the preparation of a kit. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the kit is used for diagnosing autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Therefore, by detecting whether the nucleic acid or protein exists in the biological sample, it is possible to effectively diagnose whether suffering from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂包括抗体、探针以及引物的至少之一。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the reagent includes at least one of an antibody, a probe and a primer. 根据本发明的实施例，所述探针或引物具有如SEQ ID NO：3-6所示的核苷酸序列。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the probe or primer has a nucleotide sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 3-6. 在本发明的第五方面，本发明提出了一种生物模型在筛选药物中的用途。根据本发明的实施例，所述生物模型携带前面所述的分离的核酸和/或前面所述的基因突变和/或表达前面所述的分离的蛋白质。由此，利用本发明的生物模型能够准确地筛选出治疗常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的药物。In the fifth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of a biological model in drug screening. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the biological model carries the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid and/or the aforementioned gene mutation and/or expresses the aforementioned isolated protein. Therefore, the medicine for treating autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be accurately screened out by using the biological model of the invention. 根据本发明的实施例，所述生物模型为细胞模型或者动物模型。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the biological model is a cell model or an animal model. 在本发明的第六方面，本发明提出了一种用于治疗常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的药物。根据本发明的实施例，所述药物含有：特异性改变前面所述的分离的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变或者前面所述分离的蛋白质的试剂。由此，利用本发明的药物能够有效地治疗常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。In the sixth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a medicine for treating autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the medicine contains: a reagent for specifically changing the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation or the aforementioned isolated protein. Therefore, the medicament of the present invention can effectively treat autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第七方面，本发明提出了一种筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的系统。根据本发明的实施例，所述系统包括：核酸提取装置，所述核酸提取装置用于从所述生物样品提取核酸样本；核酸序列确定装置，所述核酸序列确定装置与所述核酸提取装置相连，用于对所述核酸样本进行分析，以便确定所述核酸样本的核酸序列；判断装置，所述判断装置与所述核酸序列确定装置相连，以便基于所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列与SEQ ID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，是否具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del突变，和/或基于所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，是否具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T突变，判断所述生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。通过本发明筛选常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的系统，可以有效地筛选出患常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In the seventh aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a system for screening biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the system includes: a nucleic acid extraction device, the nucleic acid extraction device is used to extract a nucleic acid sample from the biological sample; a nucleic acid sequence determination device, the nucleic acid sequence determination device is connected to the nucleic acid extraction device , for analyzing the nucleic acid sample, so as to determine the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample; a judging device, the judging device is connected to the nucleic acid sequence determining device, so that based on the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample or its complementary sequence Compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, whether there is a mutation selected from the following: c.393_436+21del mutation, and/or based on the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample or its complementary sequence and SEQ ID NO: Compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in 2, whether there is a mutation selected from the following: c.220C>T mutation, it is judged whether the biological sample suffers from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. By the system for screening biological samples of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness of the present invention, biological samples suffering from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be effectively screened out. 根据本发明的实施例，所述核酸提取装置进一步包括：RNA提取单元，所述RNA提取单元用于从所述生物样品中提取RNA样本；以及反转录单元，所述反转录单元与所述RNA提取单元相连，用于对所述RNA样本进行反转录反应，以便获得cDNA样本，所述cDNA样本构成所述核酸样本。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid extraction device further includes: an RNA extraction unit for extracting RNA samples from the biological sample; and a reverse transcription unit, the reverse transcription unit and the The RNA extraction unit is connected to perform a reverse transcription reaction on the RNA sample, so as to obtain a cDNA sample, and the cDNA sample constitutes the nucleic acid sample. 根据本发明的实施例，所述突变为杂合突变。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the mutation is a heterozygous mutation. 根据本发明的实施例，所述核酸序列确定装置进一步包括：文库构建单元，所述文库构建单元用于针对所述核酸样本，构建核酸测序文库；以及测序单元，所述测序单元与所述文库构建单元相连，用于对所述核酸测序文库进行测序，以便获得由多个测序数据构成的测序结果。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the device for determining the nucleic acid sequence further includes: a library construction unit, the library construction unit is used to construct a nucleic acid sequencing library for the nucleic acid sample; and a sequencing unit, the sequencing unit and the library The construction units are connected and used for sequencing the nucleic acid sequencing library, so as to obtain a sequencing result composed of a plurality of sequencing data. 根据本发明的实施例，所述文库构建单元进一步包括：PCR扩增模块，所述PCR扩增模块中设置有MPZL2基因外显子特异性引物，以便利用所述特异性引物对所述核酸样本进行PCR扩增。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the library construction unit further includes: a PCR amplification module, the MPZL2 gene exon-specific primers are set in the PCR amplification module, so that the nucleic acid sample can be detected by using the specific primers. Perform PCR amplification. 根据本发明的实施例，所述特异性引物具有如SEQ ID NO：3-6所示的核苷酸序列。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the specific primer has a nucleotide sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 3-6. 根据本发明的实施例，所述测序单元包括选自HISEQ2000、SOLiD、454和单分子测序装置的至少一种。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the sequencing unit includes at least one selected from HISEQ2000, SOLiD, 454, and single-molecule sequencing devices. 在本发明的第八方面，本发明提出了一种用于筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的试剂盒。根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂盒含有：适于检测前面所述的分离的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变或者前面所述蛋白质至少一种的试剂。通过根据本发明实施例的筛选常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的试剂盒，可以有效地筛选出患常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In the eighth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a kit for screening biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the kit contains: a reagent suitable for detecting at least one of the above-mentioned isolated nucleic acid or the above-mentioned gene mutation or the above-mentioned protein. With the kit for screening biological samples of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness according to the embodiments of the present invention, biological samples suffering from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be effectively screened out. 根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂包括抗体、探针以及引物的至少之一。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the reagent includes at least one of an antibody, a probe and a primer. 根据本发明的实施例，所述探针或引物具有如SEQ ID NO：3-6所示的核苷酸序列。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the probe or primer has a nucleotide sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 3-6. 在本发明的第九方面，本发明提出了一种构建体。根据本发明的实施例，所述构建体包含前面所述的分离的核酸或前面所述的基因突变。本发明的构建体上含有c.393_436+21del和/或c.220C>T的基因突变，将其转入受体细胞中，可以实现对患常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的筛选、研究及治疗。In the ninth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a construct. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the construct comprises the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation. The construct of the present invention contains gene mutations of c.393_436+21del and/or c.220C>T, which can be transferred into recipient cells to realize the detection of biological samples suffering from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Screening, research and treatment. 在本发明的第十方面，本发明提出了一种重组细胞。根据本发明的实施例，所述重组细胞是通过前面所述的构建体转化受体细胞而获得的或者表达前面所述的分离的蛋白质而获得的。利用根据本发明实施例的重组细胞可以实现对患常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的筛选、研究及治疗。In the tenth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a recombinant cell. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the recombinant cell is obtained by transforming the recipient cell with the aforementioned construct or expressing the aforementioned isolated protein. The screening, research and treatment of biological samples suffering from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be realized by using the recombinant cells according to the embodiments of the present invention. 本发明的附加方面和优点将在下面的描述中部分给出，部分将从下面的描述中变得明显，或通过本发明的实践了解到。Additional aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or may be learned by practice of the invention. 附图说明Description of drawings 本发明的上述和/或附加的方面和优点从结合下面附图对实施例的描述中将变得明显和容易理解，其中：The above and/or additional aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent and understandable from the description of the embodiments in conjunction with the following drawings, wherein: 图1显示了根据本发明一个实施例的突变方式示意图；Figure 1 shows a schematic diagram of a mutation method according to an embodiment of the present invention; 图2显示了根据本发明一个实施例的筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的系统示意图；Figure 2 shows a schematic diagram of a system for screening biological samples suffering from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness according to one embodiment of the present invention; 图3显示了根据本发明的一个实施例的隐性遗传非综合型耳聋Trio家系，该家系包含3名成员，儿子为耳聋患者(即家系图中的II-1)，父母为正常人(即家系图中的I-1、I-2)，其中，实心图标为患者，箭头所指为先证者；Fig. 3 has shown the recessive genetic non-synthetic deaf Trio family according to an embodiment of the present invention, and this family comprises 3 members, and the son is deafness patient (being II-1 in pedigree diagram), and parents are normal people (being I-1 and I-2 in the pedigree diagram), where the solid icon is the patient, and the arrow points to the proband; 图4显示了根据本发明的一个实施例的患者家系中患者的听力图结果图；Fig. 4 has shown the audiogram result chart of the patient in the family of the patient according to an embodiment of the present invention; 图5显示了根据本发明的一个实施例的患者家系中所有家系成员的MPZL2基因的c.393_436+21del突变代表性Sanger测序验证峰图；Fig. 5 shows the c.393_436+21del mutation representative Sanger sequencing verification profile of the MPZL2 gene of all family members in the patient family according to an embodiment of the present invention; 图6显示了根据本发明的一个实施例的患者家系中所有家系成员的MPZL2基因的和c.220C>T突变代表性Sanger测序验证峰图。Fig. 6 shows a representative Sanger sequencing verification profile of MPZL2 gene and c.220C>T mutation of all family members in a patient family according to an embodiment of the present invention. 具体实施方式Detailed ways 下面详细描述本发明的实施例。下面描述的实施例是示例性的，仅用于解释本发明，而不能理解为对本发明的限制。Embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below. The embodiments described below are exemplary only for explaining the present invention and should not be construed as limiting the present invention. 需要说明的是，术语“第一”、“第二”仅用于描述目的，而不能理解为指示或暗示相对重要性或者隐含指明所指示的技术特征的数量。由此，限定有“第一”、“第二”的特征可以明示或者隐含地包括一个或者更多个该特征。进一步地，在本发明的描述中，除非另有说明，“多个”的含义是两个或两个以上。It should be noted that the terms 'first' and 'second' are only used for descriptive purposes, and cannot be understood as indicating or implying relative importance or implicitly indicating the quantity of indicated technical features. Thus, a feature defined as 'first' and 'second' may explicitly or implicitly include one or more of these features. Further, in the description of the present invention, unless otherwise specified, 'plurality' means two or more. 在本文中所披露的范围的端点和任何值都不限于该精确的范围或值，这些范围或值应当理解为包含接近这些范围或值的值。对于数值范围来说，各个范围的端点值之间、各个范围的端点值和单独的点值之间，以及单独的点值之间可以彼此组合而得到一个或多个新的数值范围，这些数值范围应被视为在本文中具体公开。Neither the endpoints nor any values of the ranges disclosed herein are limited to such precise ranges or values, and these ranges or values are understood to include values approaching these ranges or values. For numerical ranges, between the endpoints of each range, between the endpoints of each range and individual point values, and between individual point values can be combined with each other to obtain one or more new numerical ranges, these values Ranges should be considered as specifically disclosed herein. 分离的核酸isolated nucleic acid 根据本发明的第一方面，本发明提出了一种分离的核酸。根据本发明的实施例，与SEQ ID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del；和/或与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T。According to a first aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes an isolated nucleic acid. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from: c.393_436+21del; and/or the mutation shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 Compared to the nucleotide sequence shown, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from: c.220C>T. MPZL2基因位于11q23.3区域，包括6个外显子，MPZL2基因突变会导致常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋，临床表现为耳聋，但无前庭异常，平均发病年龄在4岁，高频听力损失更为严重。The MPZL2 gene is located in the 11q23.3 region, including 6 exons. Mutations in the MPZL2 gene can lead to autosomal recessive non-synthetic deafness. The clinical manifestations are deafness, but there is no vestibular abnormality. The average age of onset is 4 years old, and high-frequency hearing loss more serious. 需要说明的是，本发明的分离的核酸编码MPZL2基因突变体，也可以称为“编码MPZL2基因突变体的核酸”，即该核酸可以理解为与编码MPZL2基因突变体的基因相对应的核酸物质，即核酸的类型不受特别限制，可以是任何包含与MPZL2的编码基因相对应的脱氧核糖核苷酸和/或核糖核苷酸的聚合物，包括但不限于DNA、RNA或cDNA。根据本发明的一个具体示例，前面所述分离的核酸为DNA。另外，本领域技术人员应当理解，术语“核酸”实际包括互补双链的任意一条，或者两条。为了方便，在本说明书和权利要求书中，虽然多数情况下只给出了一条链，但实际上也公开了与之互补的另一条链。例如，提及SEQ ID NO:1和2，实际包括其互补序列。本领域技术人员还可以理解，利用一条链可以检测另一条链，反之亦然。It should be noted that the isolated nucleic acid encoding the MPZL2 gene mutant of the present invention can also be referred to as 'nucleic acid encoding the MPZL2 gene mutant', that is, the nucleic acid can be understood as the nucleic acid substance corresponding to the gene encoding the MPZL2 gene mutant , that is, the type of nucleic acid is not particularly limited, and may be any polymer comprising deoxyribonucleotides and/or ribonucleotides corresponding to the gene encoding MPZL2, including but not limited to DNA, RNA or cDNA. According to a specific example of the present invention, the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid is DNA. In addition, those skilled in the art should understand that the term 'nucleic acid' actually includes any one or both of the complementary double strands. For convenience, in this specification and claims, although only one chain is given in most cases, another chain complementary to it is also disclosed in fact. For example, reference to SEQ ID NO: 1 and 2 actually includes their complements. It will also be understood by those skilled in the art that one strand can be used to detect the other, and vice versa. 发明人确定了MPZL2基因的新突变体，MPZL2基因的c.393_436+21del突变，且该突变与患者另一条染色体上同一个基因的c.220C>T突变构成复合杂合(in trans)，导致了常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发生。该编码MPZL2突变体的核酸，是本申请的发明人通过高通量外显子组测序联合候选基因突变验证的方法确定的常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的致病基因上的新突变，该突变位点在现有技术中并未被提到。The inventors have identified a new mutant of the MPZL2 gene, the c.393_436+21del mutation of the MPZL2 gene, and this mutation forms a compound heterozygosity (in trans) with the c.220C>T mutation of the same gene on another chromosome of the patient, resulting in The occurrence of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. The nucleic acid encoding the MPZL2 mutant is a new mutation in the causative gene of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness determined by the inventors of the present application through high-throughput exome sequencing combined with candidate gene mutation verification. This mutation site has not been mentioned in the prior art. 本文中，术语“一种分离的核酸”应作广义理解，当单独具有c.393_436+21del或c.220C>T突变，“一种分离的核酸”表示为两种不同的核酸分子；当同时具有c.393_436+21del或c.220C>T突变，由于两个突变分别存在于不同染色体上，具体为同源染色体的两个单体上，“一种分离的核酸”表示为一组核酸分子，包括第一核酸和第二核酸，与SEQ ID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，第一核酸具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del，与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，第二核酸具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T。同理地，术语“一种分离的蛋白质”也做相应解释。Herein, the term 'an isolated nucleic acid' should be interpreted in a broad sense. When it has c.393_436+21del or c.220C>T mutation alone, 'an isolated nucleic acid' means two different nucleic acid molecules; With the c.393_436+21del or c.220C>T mutation, since the two mutations exist on different chromosomes, specifically two monomers of homologous chromosomes, 'an isolated nucleic acid' is expressed as a group of nucleic acid molecules , comprising a first nucleic acid and a second nucleic acid, compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, the first nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the group consisting of: c.393_436+21del, and the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 Compared to the nucleotide sequence, the second nucleic acid has a mutation selected from: c.220C>T. The term 'an isolated protein' is to be construed accordingly. 本文中，野生型MPZL2基因的DNA序列(例如内含子序列、外显子序列等)、RNA序列、编码蛋白信息等有关该野生型MPZL2基因的信息均在NCBI数据库中有收录，可以参考网址https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/10205，SEQ ID NO：1和2为其中的部分序列。野生型MPZL2基因的部分DNA序列参考NC_000011.9。In this paper, the DNA sequence (such as intron sequence, exon sequence, etc.), RNA sequence, and encoded protein information of the wild-type MPZL2 gene are all included in the NCBI database. You can refer to the website https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/10205, SEQ ID NO: 1 and 2 are partial sequences. The partial DNA sequence of the wild-type MPZL2 gene refers to NC_000011.9. SEQ ID NO：1(序列区段：EXON3-INTRON3)，双下划线加粗为突变。SEQ ID NO: 1 (sequence segment: EXON3-INTRON3), double underlined bold means mutation. c.393_436+21del突变是指在野生型MPZL2基因3号外显子第393-436+21位的碱基缺失(标识序列缺失)，具体参见图2。c.393_436+21del mutation refers to the base deletion (identification sequence deletion) at position 393-436+21 of exon 3 of the wild-type MPZL2 gene, see Figure 2 for details. SEQ ID NO:2(序列区段：INTRON1-EXON2-INTRON2)，双下划线加粗为突变。SEQ ID NO: 2 (sequence segment: INTRON1-EXON2-INTRON2), double underlined bold indicates mutation. c.220C>T突变是指在野生型MPZL2基因2号外显子第200位的C碱基突变为T。c.220C>T mutation refers to the mutation of C base at position 200 of exon 2 of wild-type MPZL2 gene to T. 基因突变Gene mutation 在本发明的第二方面，本发明提出了一种基因突变。根据本发明的实施例，与SEQID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del；和/或与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T。发明人发现，野生型MPZL2基因具有上述两种突变至少之一，与常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而通过检测MPZL2基因是否存在该突变，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。In a second aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a gene mutation. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the following: c.393_436+21del; and/or the mutation shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 Compared with the nucleotide sequence of , the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the group consisting of: c.220C>T. The inventors found that the wild-type MPZL2 gene has at least one of the above two mutations, which is closely related to the onset of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, so by detecting whether the mutation exists in the MPZL2 gene, it is possible to effectively detect whether the biological sample is suffering from There is autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 分离的蛋白质isolated protein 在本发明的第三方面，本发明提出了一种分离的蛋白质。根据本发明的实施例，所述分离的蛋白质由前面所述分离的核酸编码获得。通过检测生物样品中是否表达该蛋白质，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。In a third aspect of the invention, the invention provides an isolated protein. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the isolated protein is encoded by the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid. By detecting whether the protein is expressed in the biological sample, whether the biological sample suffers from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be effectively detected. 制备试剂盒中的用途Use in the preparation kit 在本发明的第四方面，本发明提出了前面所述分离的核酸或基因突变或分离的蛋白质的试剂在制备试剂盒中的用途。根据本发明的实施例，该试剂盒用于诊断患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。发明人发现，MPZL2基因编码区具有突变位点c.393_436+21del和/或c.220C>T，该突变与常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而通过检测该核酸在生物样本中是否存在，可以有效地诊断出是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。In the fourth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of the above-mentioned isolated nucleic acid or gene mutation or isolated protein reagent in the preparation of a kit. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the kit is used for diagnosing autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. The inventors found that the coding region of the MPZL2 gene has mutation sites c.393_436+21del and/or c.220C>T, which are closely related to the onset of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Whether it exists in the sample can effectively diagnose whether you have autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，试剂包括抗体、探针以及引物的至少之一。抗体、探针以及引物可以通过特异性识别、结合、扩增MPZL2基因的c.393_436+21del和c.220C>T突变，从而有效地检测生物体样本中是否存在该突变，进而有效地诊断出是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the reagent includes at least one of an antibody, a probe, and a primer. Antibodies, probes and primers can specifically recognize, bind and amplify the c.393_436+21del and c.220C>T mutations of the MPZL2 gene, thereby effectively detecting the existence of the mutations in biological samples and effectively diagnosing Whether you have autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，探针或引物具有如SEQ ID NO：3-6所示的核苷酸序列。通过采用这些引物，可以在PCR反应体系中显著有效地完成对MPZL2基c.393_436+21del和c.220C>T突变所在的外显子序列的扩增。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the probe or primer has a nucleotide sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 3-6. By using these primers, the amplification of the exon sequence where the c.393_436+21del and c.220C>T mutations of the MPZL2 base are located can be significantly and effectively completed in the PCR reaction system. 生物模型在筛选药物中的用途Use of Biological Models in Screening Drugs 在本发明的第五方面，本发明提出了生物模型在筛选药物中的用途。根据本发明的实施例，生物模型携带前面所述的分离的核酸和/或前面所述的基因突变和/或表达前面所述的分离的蛋白质。发明人发现，MPZL2基因编码区具有c.393_436+21del和/或c.220C>T，该突变与常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，通过使生物模型携带有该突变核酸、基因突变或突变蛋白，若候选药物能够特异性地使得这些突变发生改变(例如突变转换为野生型)，则可推断出该候选药物为治疗常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的药物。由此，利用本发明的生物模型能够准确地筛选出治疗常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的药物。In the fifth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of biological models in drug screening. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the biological model carries the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid and/or the aforementioned gene mutation and/or expresses the aforementioned isolated protein. The inventors found that the coding region of the MPZL2 gene has c.393_436+21del and/or c.220C>T, and this mutation is closely related to the onset of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. By making the biological model carry the mutant nucleic acid, Gene mutation or mutant protein, if the candidate drug can specifically change these mutations (for example, the mutation is converted to wild type), it can be inferred that the candidate drug is a drug for the treatment of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Therefore, the medicine for treating autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be accurately screened out by using the biological model of the invention. 根据本发明的实施例，生物模型为细胞模型或者动物模型。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the biological model is a cell model or an animal model. 用于治疗常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的药物Drugs used to treat autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness 在本发明的第六方面，本发明提出了一种用于治疗常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的药物。根据本发明的实施例，该药物含有：特异性改变前面所述的分离的核酸或者基因突变或者分离的蛋白质的试剂。发明人发现，MPZL2基因编码区具有c.393_436+21del和/或c.220C>T，该突变与常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，通过对患病机体施加能够特异性改变核酸或蛋白突变(例如突变转换为野生型)的试剂，从而能够有效地起到治疗目的。In the sixth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a medicine for treating autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the medicine contains: a reagent for specifically changing the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid or gene mutation or isolated protein. The inventors found that the coding region of the MPZL2 gene has c.393_436+21del and/or c.220C>T, and this mutation is closely related to the onset of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Reagents for nucleic acid or protein mutation (for example, mutation conversion to wild type), so as to effectively achieve therapeutic purposes. 需要说明的是，本发明所使用的术语“治疗”用于指获得期望的药理学和/或生理学效果。所述效果就完全或部分预防疾病或其症状而言可以是预防性的，和/或就部分或完全治愈疾病和/或疾病导致的不良作用而言可以是治疗性的。本文使用的“治疗”涵盖哺乳动物、特别是人的疾病，包括：(a)在容患有病但是尚未确诊得病的个体中预防疾病(例如预防常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋)或病症发生；(b)抑制疾病，例如阻滞疾病发展；或(c)缓解疾病，例如减轻与疾病相关的症状。本文使用的“治疗”涵盖将药物或化合物给予个体以治疗、治愈、缓解、改善、减轻或抑制个体的疾病的任何用药，包括但不限于将含本文所述药物给予有需要的个体。It should be noted that the term 'treatment' used in the present invention refers to obtaining desired pharmacological and/or physiological effects. The effect may be prophylactic in terms of complete or partial prevention of the disease or its symptoms, and/or therapeutic in terms of partial or complete cure of the disease and/or adverse effects caused by the disease. 'Treatment' as used herein encompasses disease in mammals, especially humans, including: (a) prophylaxis of a disease (e.g. prevention of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness) or condition in an individual who is susceptible to the disease but has not yet been diagnosed with the disease (b) inhibiting the disease, such as arresting the development of the disease; or (c) alleviating the disease, such as reducing symptoms associated with the disease. 'Treatment' as used herein encompasses any administration of a drug or compound to an individual to treat, cure, alleviate, ameliorate, lessen or inhibit a disease in an individual, including but not limited to administering a drug or compound as described herein to an individual in need thereof. 筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的系统System for screening biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness 在本发明的第七方面，本发明提出了一种筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的系统。In the seventh aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a system for screening biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 参考图2，根据本发明的实施例，该筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的系统1000包括核酸提取装置100、核酸序列确定装置200以及判断装置300。Referring to FIG. 2 , according to an embodiment of the present invention, the system 1000 for screening biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness includes a nucleic acid extraction device 100 , a nucleic acid sequence determination device 200 and a judging device 300 . 根据本发明的实施例，核酸提取装置100用于从生物样品提取核酸样本。如前所述，根据本发明的实施例，核酸样本的类型并不受特别限制，对于采用RNA作为核酸样本，则核酸提取装置进一步包括RNA提取单元101和反转录单元102，其中，提取单元101用于从生物样品中提取RNA样本，反转录单元102与RNA提取单元101相连，用于对RNA样本进行反转录反应，以便获得cDNA样本，所得到的cDNA样本构成核酸样本。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid extraction device 100 is used to extract nucleic acid samples from biological samples. As mentioned above, according to the embodiment of the present invention, the type of nucleic acid sample is not particularly limited. For using RNA as a nucleic acid sample, the nucleic acid extraction device further includes an RNA extraction unit 101 and a reverse transcription unit 102, wherein the extraction unit 101 is used to extract RNA samples from biological samples, and the reverse transcription unit 102 is connected to the RNA extraction unit 101, and is used to perform reverse transcription reaction on the RNA samples to obtain cDNA samples, and the obtained cDNA samples constitute nucleic acid samples. 根据本发明的实施例，核酸序列确定装置200与核酸提取装置100相连，用于对核酸样本进行分析，以便确定核酸样本的核酸序列。如前所示，可以采用测序的方法确定核酸样本的核酸序列。由此，根据本发明的一个实施例，所述核酸序列确定装置200可以进一步包括：文库构建单元201以及测序单元202。文库构建单元201用于针对核酸样本，构建核酸测序文库；测序单元202与文库构建单元201相连，用于对核酸测序文库进行测序，以便获得由多个测序数据构成的测序结果。如前所述，可以通过PCR扩增，富集MPZL2外显子，进一步提高筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的效率。由此，文库构建单元201可以进一步包括PCR扩增模块(图中未示出)，在该PCR扩增模块中设置有MPZL2基因外显子特异性引物，以便利用MPZL2外显子特异性引物，对核酸样本进行PCR扩增，根据本发明的具体实施例，MPZL2基因外显子特异性引物具有如SEQ ID NO：3-6所示的核苷酸序列。根据本发明的实施例，测序单元202可以包括选自HISEQ2000、SOLiD、454和单分子测序装置的至少一种。由此，结合最新的测序技术，针对单个位点可以达到较高的测序深度，检测灵敏度和准确性大大提高，因而能够利用这些测序装置的高通量、深度测序的特点，进一步提高对核酸样本进行检测分析的效率。从而，提高后续对测序数据进行分析时的精确性和准确度。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid sequence determination device 200 is connected to the nucleic acid extraction device 100 and is used to analyze the nucleic acid sample so as to determine the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample. As mentioned above, the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample can be determined by sequencing. Therefore, according to an embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid sequence determination device 200 may further include: a library construction unit 201 and a sequencing unit 202 . The library construction unit 201 is used to construct a nucleic acid sequencing library for nucleic acid samples; the sequencing unit 202 is connected to the library construction unit 201 and used for sequencing the nucleic acid sequencing library, so as to obtain a sequencing result composed of a plurality of sequencing data. As mentioned above, the exons of MPZL2 can be enriched by PCR amplification to further improve the efficiency of screening biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Thus, the library construction unit 201 may further include a PCR amplification module (not shown in the figure), in which MPZL2 gene exon-specific primers are set, so as to utilize MPZL2 exon-specific primers, Perform PCR amplification on the nucleic acid sample. According to a specific embodiment of the present invention, the MPZL2 gene exon-specific primers have the nucleotide sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 3-6. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the sequencing unit 202 may include at least one selected from HISEQ2000, SOLiD, 454, and single-molecule sequencing devices. Therefore, combined with the latest sequencing technology, a higher sequencing depth can be achieved for a single site, and the detection sensitivity and accuracy are greatly improved. Efficiency in conducting assays. Therefore, the precision and accuracy of the subsequent analysis of the sequencing data are improved. 根据本发明的实施例，判断装置300与核酸序列确定装置200相连，适于将核酸样本的核酸序列进行比对，以便基于所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列与SEQ ID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，是否具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del突变，和/或基于所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，是否具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T突变，判断所述生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。根据本发明的一个实施例，核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列与SEQ ID NO：1相比，具有c.393_436+21del突变，和/或与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，具有c.220C>T突变，是生物样品患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的指示。根据本发明的一个实施例，突变为杂合突变。根据本发明的实施例，对核酸序列或其互补序列与SEQ ID NO：1或2进行比对的设备并不受特别限制，可以采用任意常规的软件进行操作，根据本发明的具体实例，可以采用SOAP软件进行比对。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the judging device 300 is connected to the nucleic acid sequence determination device 200, and is suitable for comparing the nucleic acid sequences of the nucleic acid samples, so that the nucleic acid sequences of the nucleic acid samples or their complementary sequences are compared with those described in SEQ ID NO: 1. Compared with the nucleotide sequence shown, whether there is a mutation selected from the following: c.393_436+21del mutation, and/or based on the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample or its complementary sequence and the nucleotide shown in SEQ ID NO:2 Compared with the sequence, whether there is a mutation selected from the following: c.220C>T mutation, it is judged whether the biological sample suffers from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample or its complementary sequence has a c.393_436+21del mutation compared with SEQ ID NO: 1, and/or the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 In contrast, having the c.220C>T mutation is an indication that the biological sample suffers from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. According to one embodiment of the invention, the mutation is a heterozygous mutation. According to the embodiment of the present invention, the equipment for comparing the nucleic acid sequence or its complementary sequence with SEQ ID NO: 1 or 2 is not particularly limited, and any conventional software can be used for operation. According to specific examples of the present invention, it can be The SOAP software was used for comparison. 由此，利用该系统，能够有效地筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。Thus, using this system, biological samples suffering from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be efficiently screened. 用于筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的试剂盒Kit for screening biological samples with autosomal recessive nonsyndromic deafness 在本发明的第八方面，本发明提出了一种用于筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的试剂盒。根据本发明的实施例，该试剂盒含有：适于检测前面所述的分离的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变或者前面所述分离的蛋白质至少一种的试剂。由此，利用根据本发明实施例的试剂盒可以高效地筛选患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In the eighth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a kit for screening biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the kit contains: a reagent suitable for detecting at least one of the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation or the aforementioned isolated protein. Thus, biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be efficiently screened using the kit according to the embodiment of the present invention. 根据本发明的实施例，试剂包括抗体、探针以及引物的至少之一。抗体、探针以及引物可以通过特异性识别、结合、扩增MPZL2基因的c.393_436+21del和c.220C>T突变，从而有效地检测生物体样本中是否存在该突变，进而筛选生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the reagent includes at least one of an antibody, a probe, and a primer. Antibodies, probes and primers can specifically recognize, bind and amplify the c.393_436+21del and c.220C>T mutations of the MPZL2 gene, thereby effectively detecting whether the mutation exists in biological samples, and then screening biological samples for Suffering from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 构建体construct 在本发明的第九方面，本发明提出了一种构建体。根据本发明的实施例，该构建体包含前面所述的分离的核酸或前面所述的基因突变。本发明的构建体上含有c.393_436+21del和/或c.220C>T的基因突变，将其转入受体细胞中，可以实现对患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的筛选、研究及治疗。In the ninth aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a construct. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the construct comprises the aforementioned isolated nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation. The construct of the present invention contains gene mutations of c.393_436+21del and/or c.220C>T, which can be transferred into recipient cells to realize the detection of biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness screening, research and treatment. 重组细胞recombinant cells 在本发明的第十方面，本发明提出了一种重组细胞。根据本发明的实施例，该重组细胞是通过前面所述的构建体转化受体细胞而获得的或者表达前面所述的分离的蛋白质而获得的。利用根据本发明实施例的重组细胞可以实现对患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的筛选、研究及治疗。In the tenth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a recombinant cell. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the recombinant cell is obtained by transforming the recipient cell with the aforementioned construct or expressing the aforementioned isolated protein. The screening, research and treatment of biological samples with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be realized by using the recombinant cells according to the embodiments of the present invention. 有益效果：Beneficial effect: 本发明发现的常染色体隐性耳聋致病基因MPZL2的2个新的致病突变，该突变位点可用于常染色体隐性耳聋患者的分子诊断及与相关疾病的鉴别诊断，并且快速、准确、高效、简便、早期诊断率高，检测结果可以为常染色体隐性耳聋的早期诊断、鉴别诊断及药物治疗提供科学依据。The two new pathogenic mutations of the autosomal recessive deafness gene MPZL2 discovered in the present invention can be used for the molecular diagnosis of autosomal recessive deafness patients and the differential diagnosis of related diseases, and it is fast, accurate, and It is efficient, simple, and has a high early diagnosis rate. The test results can provide scientific basis for early diagnosis, differential diagnosis and drug treatment of autosomal recessive deafness. 下面将结合实施例对本发明的方案进行解释。本领域技术人员将会理解，下面的实施例仅用于说明本发明，而不应视为限定本发明的范围。实施例中未注明具体技术或条件的，按照本领域内的文献所描述的技术或条件或者按照产品说明书进行。所用试剂或仪器未注明生产厂商者，均为可以通过市购获得的常规产品。The solutions of the present invention will be explained below in conjunction with examples. Those skilled in the art will understand that the following examples are only for illustrating the present invention and should not be considered as limiting the scope of the present invention. If no specific technique or condition is indicated in the examples, it shall be carried out according to the technique or condition described in the literature in this field or according to the product specification. The reagents or instruments used were not indicated by the manufacturer, and they were all commercially available conventional products. 实施例1确定常染色体隐性耳聋致病突变Example 1 Determination of autosomal recessive deafness-causing mutations 1、样本搜集1. Sample collection 发明人搜集到一个中国汉族耳聋患者Trio家系(父母+先证者)，其家系图见图3。如图3所示，该家系包含3名成员，儿子为表现为耳聋(即家系图中的II-1)、父母为正常人(即家系图中的I-1、I-2)。其中，实心图标为患者，箭头所指为先证者。The inventor collected a Trio pedigree (parents + proband) of a Chinese Han deaf patient, the pedigree of which is shown in FIG. 3 . As shown in Figure 3, the family includes 3 members, the son is deaf (ie II-1 in the pedigree chart), and the parents are normal (ie I-1, I-2 in the pedigree chart). Among them, the solid icon is the patient, and the arrow points to the proband. 该家系中患者的听力结果见图4。在图4中，横坐标表示听力的频率，纵坐标表示听力级别，如果听力正常，阈值曲线应该是在0附近浮动。如图4所示，听力图提示患者II-1双耳中度耳聋。The hearing results of the patients in this family are shown in Figure 4. In Figure 4, the abscissa represents the frequency of hearing, and the ordinate represents the hearing level. If the hearing is normal, the threshold curve should be floating around 0. As shown in Figure 4, the audiogram showed that patient II-1 had moderate deafness in both ears. 发明人收集该家系内所有成员的外周血样本，加入EDTA抗凝，-80摄氏度保存。所有血液样本均已签属知情同意书。The inventor collected peripheral blood samples of all members of the family, added EDTA for anticoagulation, and stored them at -80°C. All blood samples were signed informed consent. 2、DNA提取2. DNA extraction 取上述家系所有成员的外周血，分别利用QIAmpBloodkit(Qiagen,Hilden,Germany)抽提外周血白细胞的基因组DNA，并利用QubitFluorometer和琼脂糖凝胶电泳测量DNA的浓度及纯度，所得的每个标本基因组DNAOD260/OD280均位于1.7-2.0之间，浓度不少于50纳克/微升，总量不少于3微克。The peripheral blood of all members of the above-mentioned families was collected, and the genomic DNA of peripheral blood leukocytes was extracted by QIAmpBloodkit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany), and the concentration and purity of the DNA were measured by QubitFluorometer and agarose gel electrophoresis. DNAOD260/OD280 are both located between 1.7-2.0, the concentration is not less than 50 ng/μl, and the total amount is not less than 3 μg. 3、捕获测序3. Capture sequencing 利用Agilent等液相捕获系统，结合IlluminaHiseq2500的高通量测序技术，对所有家系成员的样本进行测序。捕获范围包括全基因组外显子区域(约占全基因组1％)，捕获区域总长可达50M，测序数据量10-12Gb，100×有效测序深度。主要步骤包括打断、文库制备和上机测序。Using Agilent and other liquid phase capture systems, combined with the high-throughput sequencing technology of IlluminaHiseq2500, the samples of all family members were sequenced. The capture range includes the exon region of the whole genome (accounting for about 1% of the whole genome), the total length of the capture region can reach 50M, the sequencing data volume is 10-12Gb, and the effective sequencing depth is 100×. The main steps include fragmentation, library preparation, and on-machine sequencing. 测序数据下机后，使用内部定制流程进行突变检测、注释以及数据库比对，根据人群频率、软件预测结果、家系分析等手段，确定候选致病位点。After the sequencing data is off the machine, the internal customized process is used for mutation detection, annotation and database comparison, and the candidate pathogenic loci are determined according to the population frequency, software prediction results, family analysis and other means. 结果：在患者的MPZL2基因上发现2个杂合突变，分别为c.393_436+21del和c.220C>T。家系分析显示，患者的母亲携带c.220C>T突变，患者的父亲携带c.393_436+21del突变，提示2个突变为复合杂合。Results: Two heterozygous mutations were found in the patient's MPZL2 gene, c.393_436+21del and c.220C>T. Family analysis showed that the patient's mother carried the c.220C>T mutation, and the patient's father carried the c.393_436+21del mutation, suggesting that the two mutations were compound heterozygous. 若c.393_436+21del突变和c.220C>T突变经Sanger验证为真阳性，则基本可确认该突变为患者的耳聋致病原因。If the c.393_436+21del mutation and the c.220C>T mutation are verified as true positive by Sanger, it can be basically confirmed that the mutation is the cause of the patient's deafness. 实施例2Sanger法测序验证Example 2 Sanger method sequencing verification 分别对实施例1中所述的常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋患者家系中的所有家系成员(包括患者和听力正常的父母)的MPZL2基因进行检测：针对MPZL2基因c.393_436+21del和c.220C>T突变设计引物，然后通过PCR扩增、产物纯化和测序的方法获得突变位点有关序列，根据确定序列测定结果属于突变型还是野生型，验证MPZL2基因的c.393_436+21del和c.220C>T突变是否在样本中检出。The MPZL2 genes of all family members (comprising patients and parents with normal hearing) in the family of patients with autosomal recessive non-synthetic deafness described in Example 1 were detected: for MPZL2 genes c.393_436+21del and c. 220C>T mutation primers were designed, and then the relevant sequence of the mutation site was obtained by PCR amplification, product purification and sequencing, and the c.393_436+21del and c. Whether the 220C>T mutation was detected in the sample. 具体步骤如下：Specific steps are as follows: 1、DNA提取1. DNA extraction 按照实施例1所述的DNA提取方法，提取受试者外周静脉血中的基因组DNA备用。According to the DNA extraction method described in Example 1, the genomic DNA in the peripheral venous blood of the subject was extracted for future use. 2、引物设计及PCR反应2. Primer design and PCR reaction 首先，参考人类基因组参考序列GRCh37/hg19，针对MPZL2基因的c.393_436+21del和c.220C>T突变设计特异性引物，具体序列如下：First, referring to the human genome reference sequence GRCh37/hg19, specific primers were designed for the c.393_436+21del and c.220C>T mutations of the MPZL2 gene. The specific sequences are as follows: MPZL2 c.393_436+21del上游引物TTTTACCCCAGAACTCTTCGGT(SEQ ID NO：3)MPZL2 c.393_436+21del upstream primer TTTTACCCCAGAACTCTTCGGT (SEQ ID NO: 3) MPZL2 c.393_436+21del下游引物TACCACATAGATCCCTTCCAAC(SEQ ID NO：4)MPZL2 c.393_436+21del downstream primer TACCACATAGATCCCCTTCCAAC (SEQ ID NO: 4) MPZL2 c.220C>T上游引物TCACTTGCTTTCCCCTTCAACG(SEQ ID NO：5)MPZL2 c.220C>T upstream primer TCACTTGCTTTCCCCTTCAACG (SEQ ID NO: 5) MPZL2 c.220C>T下游引物CTACATCCCCTGTTAACCCTTC(SEQ ID NO：6)MPZL2 c.220C>T downstream primer CTACATCCCCTGTTAACCCTTC (SEQ ID NO: 6) 然后，按照以下配比配制各DNA样本的PCR反应体系以及进行PCR反应：Then, prepare the PCR reaction system of each DNA sample according to the following ratio and perform the PCR reaction: 反应体系(20μl)：Reaction system (20μl): 试剂名称Reagent name 单个反应标准量(μL)Single reaction standard volume (μL) ddH2OddH2O 12.812.8 10×Buffer10×Buffer 2.02.0 dNTP(2.5mM)dNTP (2.5mM) 2.02.0 Primer-F(10pmol)Primer-F (10pmol) 1.01.0 Primer-R(10pmol)Primer-R (10pmol) 1.01.0 Taq酶(5U/q)Taq enzyme (5U/q) 0.20.2 DNA模板DNA template 1.01.0 TotalTotal 20.020.0 PCR反应条件：PCR reaction conditions: 由此，获得各受试者基因组DNA样本的PCR扩增产物。Thus, the PCR amplification products of the genomic DNA samples of each subject were obtained. 3、Sanger测序3. Sanger sequencing 将步骤2得到的PCR产物经纯化后，直接进行DNA测序，测序使用ABI3730XL型测序仪进行正反向测序。After the PCR product obtained in step 2 was purified, DNA sequencing was performed directly, and the forward and reverse sequencing was performed using an ABI3730XL sequencer. 基于测序结果，如图5和图6所示，在所示的患者Trio家系中，患者携带MPZL2基因c.393_436+21del突变和c.220C>T突变，听力正常的母亲携带c.220C>T突变，听力正常的父亲携带c.393_436+21del突变，提示2个突变为复合杂合。Based on the sequencing results, as shown in Figure 5 and Figure 6, in the Trio family of the patient shown, the patient carried the c.393_436+21del mutation and the c.220C>T mutation of the MPZL2 gene, and the mother with normal hearing carried the c.220C>T mutation, the father with normal hearing carries the c.393_436+21del mutation, suggesting that the two mutations are compound heterozygous. 结合以上信息，可以确认MPZL2基因的c.393_436+21del突变和c.220C>T突变是导致患者II-1耳聋的致病原因。Combining the above information, it can be confirmed that the c.393_436+21del mutation and c.220C>T mutation of the MPZL2 gene are the pathogenic causes of the deafness in patient II-1. 实施例3检测试剂盒Embodiment 3 detection kit 制备检测试剂盒，其包含能够检测MPZL2基因的c.393_436+21del突变和c.220C>T突变的引物，用于诊断常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋的生物样品，其中，这些引物为MPZL2基因特异性引物，其序列如实施例2中SEQ ID NO：3-6所示。Prepare a detection kit, which includes primers capable of detecting the c.393_436+21del mutation and the c.220C>T mutation of the MPZL2 gene, for diagnosing biological samples of autosomal recessive non-synthetic deafness, wherein these primers are the MPZL2 gene Specific primers, the sequences of which are shown in SEQ ID NO: 3-6 in Example 2. 利用上述试剂盒诊断常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋的生物样品的具体步骤为：The specific steps for using the above kit to diagnose biological samples of autosomal recessive non-synthetic deafness are as follows: 按照实施例1的步骤2所述的方法提取待测者DNA，以所提取的DNA为模板与上述MPZL2基因的特异性引物进行PCR反应(PCR反应体系和反应条件参见实施例2)，并按照本领域常规方法对PCR产物纯化，将纯化的产物进行测序，然后通过观察测序所得到的序列是否具有c.393_436+21del突变和c.220C>T突变，能够有效地检测本发明的MPZL2基因突变体在待测者DNA中是否存在，从而能够有效地检测待测者是否患常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋。According to the method described in step 2 of embodiment 1, the DNA of the test subject is extracted, and the PCR reaction is carried out with the extracted DNA as a template and the specific primers of the above-mentioned MPZL2 gene (referring to embodiment 2 for the PCR reaction system and reaction conditions), and according to Conventional methods in the art purify the PCR product, sequence the purified product, and then observe whether the sequence obtained by the sequencing has the c.393_436+21del mutation and the c.220C>T mutation, which can effectively detect the MPZL2 gene mutation of the present invention It can effectively detect whether the test subject suffers from autosomal recessive non-synthetic deafness. 尽管上面已经示出和描述了本发明的实施例，可以理解的是，上述实施例是示例性的，不能理解为对本发明的限制，本领域的普通技术人员在本发明的范围内可以对上述实施例进行变化、修改、替换和变型。Although the embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described above, it can be understood that the above embodiments are exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the present invention, those skilled in the art can make the above-mentioned The embodiments are subject to changes, modifications, substitutions and variations.

### Claims

Claims (10) Translated from Chinese 1.一种分离的核酸，其特征在于，与SEQ ID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del；和/或与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T；1. An isolated nucleic acid, characterized in that, compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the group consisting of: c.393_436+21del; and/or with SEQ ID NO: Compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in ID NO: 2, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the group consisting of: c.220C>T; 任选地，所述第一核酸和第二核酸为DNA。Optionally, the first nucleic acid and the second nucleic acid are DNA. 2.一种基因突变，其特征在于，与SEQ ID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del；和/或与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，所述分离的核酸具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T。2. A gene mutation, characterized in that, compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the following: c.393_436+21del; and/or with SEQ ID Compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in NO: 2, the isolated nucleic acid has a mutation selected from the following: c.220C>T. 3.一种分离的蛋白质，其特征在于，所述分离的蛋白质由权利要求1所述分离的核酸编码获得。3. An isolated protein, characterized in that, the isolated protein is encoded by the isolated nucleic acid of claim 1. 4.检测权利要求1所述的分离的核酸、权利要求2所述的基因突变或权利要求3所述的分离的蛋白质的试剂在制备试剂盒中的用途，其特征在于，所述试剂盒用于诊断常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋；4. detect the purposes of the reagent of the isolated nucleic acid described in claim 1, the gene mutation described in claim 2 or the isolated protein described in claim 3 in the preparation kit, it is characterized in that, described kit uses For the diagnosis of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness; 任选地，所述试剂包括抗体、探针以及引物的至少之一；Optionally, the reagents include at least one of antibodies, probes, and primers; 任选地，所述探针或引物具有如SEQ ID NO：3-6所示的核苷酸序列。Optionally, the probe or primer has a nucleotide sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 3-6. 5.生物模型在筛选药物中的用途，其特征在于，所述生物模型携带权利要求1所述的分离的核酸、权利要求2所述的基因突变和/或权利要求3所述的分离的蛋白质；5. the purposes of biological model in screening medicine, it is characterized in that, described biological model carries the nucleic acid of the separation described in claim 1, the gene mutation described in claim 2 and/or the isolated protein described in claim 3 ; 任选地，所述生物模型为细胞模型或者动物模型。Optionally, the biological model is a cell model or an animal model. 6.一种用于治疗常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的药物，其特征在于，所述药物含有：6. A medicine for the treatment of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, characterized in that the medicine contains: 特异性改变权利要求1所述的分离的核酸、权利要求2所述的基因突变或者权利要求3所述的分离的蛋白质的试剂。A reagent for specifically changing the isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, the gene mutation of claim 2, or the isolated protein of claim 3. 7.一种筛选常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的系统，其特征在于，包括：7. A system for screening biological samples of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, characterized in that it comprises: 核酸提取装置，所述核酸提取装置用于从所述生物样品提取核酸样本；a nucleic acid extraction device, the nucleic acid extraction device is used to extract a nucleic acid sample from the biological sample; 核酸序列确定装置，所述核酸序列确定装置与所述核酸提取装置相连，用于对所述核酸样本进行分析，以便确定所述核酸样本的核酸序列；A nucleic acid sequence determination device, the nucleic acid sequence determination device is connected to the nucleic acid extraction device, and is used to analyze the nucleic acid sample so as to determine the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample; 判断装置，所述判断装置与所述核酸序列确定装置相连，以便基于所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列与SEQ ID NO：1所示的核苷酸序列相比，是否具有选自下列突变：c.393_436+21del突变，和/或基于所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列与SEQ ID NO：2所示的核苷酸序列相比，是否具有选自下列突变：c.220C>T突变，判断所述生物样品是否患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋；A judging device, the judging device is connected to the nucleic acid sequence determining device, so that based on the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample or its complementary sequence compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, whether it has a nucleic acid selected from the following Mutation: c.393_436+21del mutation, and/or based on the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample or its complementary sequence compared with the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2, whether there is a mutation selected from the following: c.220C >T mutation, judging whether the biological sample suffers from autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness; 任选地，所述核酸提取装置进一步包括：Optionally, the nucleic acid extraction device further comprises: RNA提取单元，所述RNA提取单元用于从所述生物样品中提取RNA样本；以及an RNA extraction unit for extracting an RNA sample from said biological sample; and 反转录单元，所述反转录单元与所述RNA提取单元相连，用于对所述RNA样本进行反转录反应，以便获得cDNA样本，所述cDNA样本构成所述核酸样本；A reverse transcription unit, the reverse transcription unit is connected to the RNA extraction unit, and is used to perform a reverse transcription reaction on the RNA sample, so as to obtain a cDNA sample, and the cDNA sample constitutes the nucleic acid sample; 任选地，所述突变为杂合突变；Optionally, the mutation is a heterozygous mutation; 任选地，所述核酸序列确定装置进一步包括：Optionally, the nucleic acid sequence determination device further includes: 文库构建单元，所述文库构建单元用于针对所述核酸样本，构建核酸测序文库；以及A library construction unit, the library construction unit is used to construct a nucleic acid sequencing library for the nucleic acid sample; and 测序单元，所述测序单元与所述文库构建单元相连，用于对所述核酸测序文库进行测序，以便获得由多个测序数据构成的测序结果；a sequencing unit, the sequencing unit is connected to the library construction unit, and is used for sequencing the nucleic acid sequencing library, so as to obtain a sequencing result composed of a plurality of sequencing data; 任选地，所述文库构建单元进一步包括：Optionally, the library construction unit further comprises: PCR扩增模块，所述PCR扩增模块中设置有特异性引物，以便利用所述特异性引物对所述核酸样本进行PCR扩增；A PCR amplification module, the PCR amplification module is provided with specific primers, so as to use the specific primers to perform PCR amplification on the nucleic acid sample; 任选地，所述特异性引物具有如SEQ ID NO：3-6所示的核苷酸序列，Optionally, the specific primer has a nucleotide sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 3-6, 任选地，所述测序单元包括选自HISEQ2000、SOLiD、454和单分子测序装置的至少一种。Optionally, the sequencing unit includes at least one selected from HISEQ2000, SOLiD, 454, and single-molecule sequencing devices. 8.一种用于筛选常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的试剂盒，其特征在于，含有：8. A test kit for screening biological samples of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, characterized in that it contains: 适于检测权利要求1所述的分离的核酸、权利要求2所述的基因突变或者权利要求3所述的分离的蛋白质至少一种的试剂；A reagent suitable for detecting at least one of the isolated nucleic acid of claim 1, the genetic mutation of claim 2, or the isolated protein of claim 3; 任选地，所述试剂包括抗体、探针以及引物的至少之一，Optionally, the reagents include at least one of antibodies, probes and primers, 任选地，所述探针或引物具有如SEQ ID NO：3-6所示的核苷酸序列。Optionally, the probe or primer has a nucleotide sequence as shown in SEQ ID NO: 3-6. 9.一种构建体，其特征在于，包含权利要求1所述的分离的核酸或权利要求2所述的基因突变。9. A construct comprising the isolated nucleic acid of claim 1 or the gene mutation of claim 2. 10.一种重组细胞，其特征在于，所述重组细胞是通过权利要求9所述的构建体转化受体细胞而获得的或者表达权利要求3所述的分离的蛋白质而获得的。10. A recombinant cell, characterized in that the recombinant cell is obtained by transforming a recipient cell with the construct according to claim 9 or expressing the isolated protein according to claim 3.
