## Patent Reference

- Title: Interpretation of genetic and genomic variants via an integrated computational and experimental deep mutational learning framework
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/AU2024219712A1/en

### Abstract

Abstract Disclosed herein are system, method, and computer program product embodiments for determining phenotypic impacts of molecular variants identified within a biological sample. Embodiments include receiving molecular variants associated with functional elements within a model system. The embodiments then determine molecular scores associated with the model system. The embodiments then determine molecular signals and population signals associated with the molecular variants based on the molecular scores. The embodiments then determine functional scores for the molecular variants based on statistical learning. The embodiments then derive evidence scores of the molecular variants based on the functional scores. The embodiments then determine phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants based on the functional scores or evidence scores.

### Description

Description INTERPRETATION OF GENETIC AND GENOMIC VARIANTS VIA AN INTEGRATED COMPUTATIONAL AND EXPERIMENTAL DEEP MUTATIONAL LEARNING FRAMEWORKCROSS-REFERENCE[0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2018289410, which first entered National Phase on 09 January 2020, and is related to International Patent Application No. PCT/US2018/038255, filed 19 June 2018, and claims priority from U.S Provisional Patent Application No. US62/521,759, filed 19 June 2017, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. US62/640,432, filed 08 March 2018. The entire content of each of these applications are incorporated herein by reference. OVERVIEW[0001a] Understanding the impact of genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants within functional elements in the genome -such as protein coding genes, non-coding genes, and regulatory elements- is critical to a diverse array of life sciences applications. Today, nearly half of all disease-associated genes harbor a higher number of uncharacterized variants in the general population than variants of known clinical significance. This poses significant challenges for both diagnostic and screening tests evaluating genetic and genomic sequences (Landrum et al. 2015; Lek et al. 2016). A high number of novel variants of unknown clinical significance is a feature of nearly all genes (e.g., for both germline and somatic variants in the population) and affects even the most frequently tested genes. For example, tests that evaluate gene-panels for cancer predisposing mutations report finding as many as 95 uncharacterized variants per known disease-causing variant (Maxwell et al. 2016). As such, predicting the phenotypic (e.g., cellular, organismal, clinical, or otherwise) consequences of genotypic variants is a hurdle to leveraging genetic and genomic information in a wide array of clinical settings. [0002] Genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants within genomically-encoded functional elements can affect diverse biophysical processes, altering distinct molecular functions within each element, and resulting in varied clinical and non-clinical phenotypes. For - la example, in an established tumor suppressor protein coding gene, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), genotypic variants affecting transcription (f.g. -903G>A, -975G>C, and -1026C>A), protein stability (f.g. C136R), phosphatase catalytic activity (f.g. C124S, H93R), and substrate recognition (f.g. G129E), have all been associated with Cowden Syndrome (CS), presenting high-risks of breast, thyroid, endometrial, kidney, colorectal cancers and melanoma (Heikkinen et al. 2011; He et al. 2013; Myers et al. 1997; Myers et al. 1998). Variants affecting the same biophysical processes and molecular functions can lead to co-morbidities between distinct disorders, as exemplified by PTEN variants affecting phosphatase activity (e.g., H93R) which have been additionally implicated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) (Johnston and Raines 2015), leading to frequent co [text continues on page 2] morbidities between ASD and cancers (Markkanen et al. 2016). Moreover, variants affecting distinct biophysical processes and molecular mechanisms within a functional element can present stereotypic, differentiated clinical and non-clinical phenotypes. Mutations in the lamina A/C gene (LMNA) cause a compendium of more than fifteen diseases collectively known as 'laminopathies,' which include A-EDMD (autosomal Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy), DCM (dilated cardiomyopathy), LGMD1B (limb girdle muscular dystrophy 1B), L-CMD (LMNA-related congenital muscular dystrophy), FPLD2 (familial partial lipodystrophy 2), HGPS (Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome), atypical WRN (Werner syndrome), MAD (mandibuloacral dysplasia) and CMT2B (Charcot-Marie-Tooth disorder type 2B) (Scharner et al. 2010). In LMNA, genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants leading to HGPS create a cryptic splice site donor in the lamin A-specific exon 11 that results in a truncated form of lamin A, whereas variants leading to FPLD2 alter surface charge of the Ig-like domain and do not change the crystal structure of the mutant protein (Scharner et al. 2010). Thus, disentangling the complexity of genotype-phenotype relationships across a wide array of variant types, functional elements, and molecular systems, and cellular effects is an outstanding challenge to robust, scalable interpretation of the phenotypic consequences of variants discovered in clinical and non-clinical genetic and genomic tests. [0003] Indeed, assessment of the significance of genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants can be a complex and challenging task. As recently as 2015, a survey of variant classifications demonstrated that as many as 17% (e.g., 2,229/12,895) of variant classifications were inconsistent among classification submitters (Rehm et al. 2015). Between clinical testing laboratories, the concordance in interpretations has been measured to be as low as 34% though specific recommendations can increase inter-laboratory concordance to 71% (Amendola et al. 2016). [0004] With greater than 5,300 genes evaluated by genetic tests (e.g., according to the NCBI Genetic Test Registry) in the market, scalable solutions for interpreting (e.g., classifying) genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants in a broad array of genes, diseases, and contexts (e.g., clinical and non-clinical) are critical to the efforts in the precision medicine and life sciences industries. With greater than 14,000,000 possible (e.g., unique) molecular variants within the subset of molecular variants corresponding to single nucleotide variants (SNVs), within the subset of coding sequences, and within the subset of protein-coding genes in the clinical testing market, effective solutions for molecular variant classification need to be robust and scalable. [0005] While multiple strategies exist for identifying the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants-including but not limited to family segregation, functional assays, and case control studies- at present, only computational variant impact predictors are able to provide supporting evidence at the required scale. In effect, an analysis of clinical variant classifications from practitioners following the joint guidelines for clinical variant interpretation from the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) and the Association of Molecular Pathology (AMP) demonstrate that -50% of clinical variant classifications rely on the use of computational variant impact predictors. Yet, despite their wide use, benchmarking studies indicate that computational variant impact prediction algorithms-such as SIFT, PolyPhen (v2), GERP++, Condel, CADD, REVEL, and others- have demonstrably low performances, with accuracies (AUC) in the 0.52 0.75 range (Mahmood et al. 2017). [0006] Direct assays of molecular function may provide a basis for the accurate interpretation of the clinical and non-clinical impacts of genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants (Shendure and Fields 2016; Arava and Fowler 2011). To date, a diverse spectrum of assays have been devised to directly assess the impact of variants on a wide array of molecular functions. However, existing methods require a priori knowledge or assumptions of the mechanism of action of variants associated with the clinical (and non clinical) phenotypes under investigation to define the molecular functions to assay (Shendure and Fields 2016). These methods are often limited to capturing the effects of, and informing on, only variants affecting specific molecular functions assayed, imposing limitations on the types of variants, types of molecular functions, and types of functional elements and genes which can be assayed in large-scale. Thus, while a phosphatase assay, for example, can nominate (e.g., rule-in) potential disease-associations for variants affecting catalytic activity of the PTEN tumor suppressor, such assay may not be able to exclude (e.g., rule-out) potential disease-associations for variants affecting protein stability as these variants may increase risk of developing disease without observable defects in catalytic activity. Conversely, while a protein stability assay, for example, can nominate (e.g., rule-in) potential disease-associations for variants leading to stability defects in the PTEN tumor suppressor, such assay may not be able to exclude (e.g., rule- out) potential disease-associations for variants affecting catalytic activity. The potential need for a prioriknowledge or assumptions of the mechanism of action (and hence relevant molecular functions to assay) may limit the application of these methods to well characterized functional elements (e.g., genes) and phenotypes which may prevent their application to poorly understood disease-associated genes. [0007] Building on the technological foundations of high-throughput DNA sequencing platforms, recently developed large-scale functional assays -such as Deep Mutational Scanning (DMS), HITS-KIN, RNA-MAP, and others- have enabled comprehensive or near-comprehensive coverage of the possible sequence variants of distinct sequence classes, including single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and non-synonymous variants (NSVs, missense variants) in coding, non-coding, and regulatory elements (Fowler et al. 2010: Araya et al. 2012; Guenther et al. 2013; Buenrostro et al. 2014: Kelsic et al. 2016: Patwardhan et al. 2009). Such methods may serve as the basis for robust, statistically validated interpretation of the impact of molecular variants-such as genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants-on patient phenotypes (Starita et al. 2015; Majithia et al. 2016), including clinical phenotypes such as lipodystrophy and increased risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D) in patients with variants in PPARG, or increased risk of breast and ovarian cancers in patients with variants in BRCA1. While such methods may provide robust variant interpretation in clinical and non-clinical testing settings, these methods may require significant development and customization to assay each molecular function and each functional element. This may limit their utility as a generalizable, scalable solution to systematically assess the clinical and non-clinical consequences of molecular variants such as genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants- across diverse types of variants, biophysical processes, molecular functions, functional elements, genes, and ultimately, pathways. Thus, there is a need for a multi-functional platform and methods for variant impact assessment. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS[0008] The accompanying drawings are incorporated herein and form a part of the specification. [0009] FIGS. 1A-IC illustrate integrated functional assay and computational Deep MutationalLearning (DML) processes and systems for determining the phenotypic impact of molecular variants, as well as example (e.g., intermediate) data generated from the application of processes and systems in two genes of the RAS/MAPK family of disorders, according to some embodiments. [0010] FIGS. 2A-2B illustrate the performance of Deep MutationalLearning (DML) processes and systems in the identification (e.g., binary classification) of disease-causing (e.g., pathogenic) and neutral (e.g., benign) molecular variants for germline (e.g., inherited) and somatic disorders in three genes of the RAS/MAPK pathway, HRAS, PTPN1, andMAP2K2, according to some embodiments. [0011] FIGS. 3A-3B illustrate the performance of Deep MutationalLearning (DML) processes and systems in the identification (e.g., binary classification) of cells harboring germline disease-causing (e.g., pathogenic) or neutral (e.g., benign) molecular variants in MAP2K2, according to some embodiments. [0012] FIG. 4 illustrates an architecture of a neural network-based Denoising Autoencoder trained and applied to generate robust, reduced representations of molecular scores, according to some embodiments. [0013] FIG. 5 illustrates normalized ERK pathway activation measured as the fraction of total ERK protein phosphorylated through enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays of cellular extracts from H293 cells harboring control, wildtype, and mutant versions of MAP2K2 and PTPN]], according to some embodiments. [0014] FIG. 6 illustrates an example of a method for reducing the costs of deploying Deep MutationalLearning (DML) to identify the phenotypic impact of molecular variants through the staged optimization and deployment of assays with varying cell-number, read-depth, Dimensionality Reduction Models (mDR), and Functional Models (mF), whereby optimization is first carried out on a (reduced) Truth Set of molecular variants, and deployment includes a Target Set of molecular variants, according to some embodiments. [0015] FIG. 7 illustrates an example of a method for computing phenotype scores, according to some embodiments. [0016] FIG. 8 illustrates an example of a method for computing molecular scores, according to some embodiments. [0017] FIG. 9 illustrates methods for computing molecular signals associated with individual molecular variants, according to some embodiments. [0018] FIG. 10 illustrates methods for computing molecular state-specific independent or disjoint estimates of molecular signals, according to some embodiments. [0019] FIG. 11 illustrates methods for characterizing the distribution of cells with specific molecular variants across molecular states or phenotype scores, and deriving population signals, according to some embodiments. [0020] FIG. 12 illustrates an example of a method for leveraging unsupervised learning techniques for identification of higher-order molecular signals from lower-order molecular signals associated with individual molecular variants, according to some embodiments. [0021] FIG. 13 illustrates an example of a method for deriving functional scores and functional classifications via machine learning to associate molecular, phenotype, or population signals with phenotypic impacts of molecular variants via regression and classification techniques, according to some embodiments. [0022] FIGS. 14A-14B illustrate an example of the performance of methods and systems for the binomial classification of molecular variants with two distinct phenotypic impacts as trained using varying numbers of cells, according to some embodiments. [0023] FIG. 15 illustrates an example of a method that permits inferring sequence function maps describing the functional scores or functional classifications for all possible non-synonymous variants in a protein coding gene using functional scores and functional classifications from a subset of the possible non-synonymous variants, according to some embodiments. [0024] FIG. 16 illustrates an example of systems and methods for reducing the costs and increasing the scope of DML processes to determine the phenotypic impact of molecular variants through a series of modeling layers, according to some embodiments. [0025] FIG. 17 illustrates an example of a method for generating lower-order Variant Interpretation Engines (VIEs) that can be gene and condition-specific using machine learning techniques, according to some embodiments. [0026] FIG. 18 illustrates an example of a method for identification of Significantly Mutated Regions (SMRs) and Networks (SMNs), according to some embodiments. [0027] FIG. 19 is an example computer system useful for implementing various embodiments. [0028] In the drawings, like reference numbers generally indicate identical or similar elements. Additionally, generally, the left-most digit(s) of a reference number identifies the drawing in which the reference number first appears. DETAILED DESCRIPTION[0029] Provided herein are system, apparatus, device, method and/or computer program product embodiments, and/or combinations and sub-combinations thereof, for enabling multi-functional, multi-element, and multi-gene (e.g., pathway-scale) assessment of the phenotypic impact of variants across a wide array of variant types, biophysical processes, molecular functions, and phenotypes. [0030] The present disclosure provides system, apparatus, device, method and/or computer program product embodiments that can leverage high-throughput molecular measurements (e.g., next-generation sequencing), single-cell manipulation, molecular biology, computational modeling, and statistical learning techniques and can enable multi-functional, multi-element, and multi-gene (pathway-scale) assessment of the phenotypic impact of variants across a wide array of variant types, biophysical processes, molecular functions, and phenotypes.= [0031] The present disclosure provides system, apparatus, device, method and/or computer program product embodiments for systematically determining and statistically validating one or more phenotypic (e.g., clinical or non-clinical) impacts (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants identified -such as genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants- in one or more (e.g., coding or non-coding) functional elements (e.g., protein-coding genes, non-coding genes, molecular domains such as protein or RNA domains, promoters, enhancers, silencers, regulatory binding sites, origins of replication, etc.) in the (e.g., nuclear, mitochondrial, etc.) genome(s), or their derivative molecules-within a biological sample or record thereof of a subject. [0032] The present disclosure provides system, apparatus, device, method and/or computer program product embodiments for the classification (or regression) of likely phenotypic impacts in a subject on the basis of one or more molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals measured in in vivo or in vitro functional model systems. The derived regressions or classifications can be referred to as functional scores or functional classifications. [0033] Embodiments herein represent a departure from existing computational or functional evidence support systems for molecular variant classification, as for example utilized in clinical genetic and genomic diagnostics. [0034] First, while existing computational methods and systems for variant classification rely on a wide-array of populational, evolutionary, physico-chemical, structural, and or molecular annotations and properties for the classification of variants, existing computational methods and systems do not employ information pertaining to the impacts of molecular variants on cellular biology. As a consequence, such computational methods are unable to capture phenotypic impacts acting through variation in molecular properties within cells or variation in cellular populations and cellular heterogeneity. [0035] Second, existing large-scale functional assays and solutions that are capable of assaying the activity of thousands of molecular variants provide activity measurements along a single dimension per molecular variant, and often require a prioriknowledge or assumptions of the mechanism of action through which molecular variants exert phenotypic impacts. [0036] Owing to these limitations, while conventional computational methods and systems for variant classification can access data across a multiplicity of annotations and parameters, these conventional approaches have demonstrably poor performance in classification (and regression) tasks for the phenotypic impact of molecular variants. Similarly, these conventional approaches require a priori knowledge or assumptions of the mechanism of action (and hence relevant molecular functions to assay), which limits their application to well-characterized functional elements (e.g., genes). This further precludes their application to poorly understood disease-associated genes. Finally, these conventional approaches require significant development and customization to assay each molecular function and each functional element. [0037] In embodiments herein, a technological solution to overcome these technological problems involves data structures providing multi-dimensional characterization of cells and cellular populations harboring specific genotypes (e.g., molecular variants) in one or more functional elements (e.g., genes) and in one or more contexts (e.g., cell-types, drug treatments, genotypic backgrounds). Such data structures enable systems and methods for statistical learning to achieve improved accuracy in the classification tasks pertaining to the phenotypic impacts of genotypes (e.g., molecular variants or combinations thereof). [0038] Embodiments herein enable robust, scalable, multi-dimensional classification of molecular variants (and combinations thereof) across a wide-array of functional elements and phenotypes through the acquisition of hundreds to tens of thousands (~102-104) of molecular measurements per model system (e.g., cell), the construction of molecular profiles for tens to thousands (~101-103) of model systems per molecular variant, thousands (~103) of molecular variants per functional element (e.g., genes), and a single or a multiplicity of functional elements in parallel. [0039] As illustrated in FIG.TA, an embodiment of the present disclosure integrates Variant Library Generation 102 and Cellular Library Generation 104 methods for high throughput mutagenesis and cellular engineering techniques to create compendiums of model systems (e.g., cells) harboring distinct molecular variants in target functional elements (e.g., genes). The embodiment provides Treatment, Single-Cell Capture, Library Preparation, Sequencing 106 methods utilizing cellular, molecular biology, and genomics techniques and technologies for treatment and capture of model systems, preparation of libraries of molecular entities, and for measuring diverse molecular entities (e.g., transcripts) within model systems. The embodiment provides Mapping, Normalization 108 bioinformatics, computational biology, and statistical techniques for mapping, quantifying, and normalizing associations between molecular variants, model systems, and molecular entities within each model system. The embodiment provides Feature Selection, Dimensionality Reduction 110 and Context Labeling, Training, Classification 112 statistical (e.g., machine) learning, distributed and high-performance computing, systems biology, population and clinical genomics techniques for label generation, feature selection, dimensionality reduction, training, and classification of molecular variants. [0040] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the use of these series of methods and technologies of FIG. TA to determine the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants identified within a biological sample. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the introduction of molecular variants into one or more functional elements within a model system. The model system can include single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the determination of molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the identification of molecular variants within the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, various methods can be utilized to identify molecular variants within the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. This may be on the basis of molecular measurements of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the determination of molecular signals or phenotype signals associated with individual molecular variants on the basis of molecular scores or phenotype scores, respectively, from the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments associated with specific molecular variants. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the determination of population signals associated with molecular variants on the basis of molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments associated with specific molecular variants. [0041] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the determination of functional scores or functional classifications of molecular variants by applying statistical (e.g., machine) learning approaches that associate molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals with the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the determination of evidence scores or evidence classifications of the molecular variants based on functional scores, functional classifications, predictor scores, predictor classifications, hotspot scores, or hotspot classifications. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the determination of the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants identified within biological samples on the basis of the functional scores, the functional classifications, the evidence scores, or the evidence classifications of the identified molecular variants. [0042] Embodiments herein integrate methods, techniques, and technologies from a multiplicity of domains. While statistical, machine learning techniques leveraging single cell molecular measurements have been developed and applied for the classification of model systems (e.g., cells) originating from tens (e.g., less than 102) of different tissues or developmental stages, the requirements for achieving accurate genotype-specific (e.g. molecular variant-specific) classifications among thousands of cells with subtle differences -such as a single nucleotide difference in a genomic background defined by greater than 3 x 109 nucleotides- within the same cell-lines, tissues, or developmental stages, can present substantial challenges. [0043] The present disclosure provides Deep MutationalLearning(DML) system, apparatus, device, method and/or computer program product embodiments, and/or combinations and sub-combinations thereof for overcoming challenges in the identification (e.g., classification) of the phenotypic impact of molecular variants identified in subjects on the basis of biological signals assayed in single and populations of model systems (e.g., cells). [0044] The present disclosure provides system, apparatus, device, method and/or computer program product embodiments, and/or combinations and sub-combinations thereof that improve cost-efficiency in the classification of molecular variants through (i) the directed deployment of DML processes and systems with lower-cost prediction models (see FIG. 16), and (ii) tiered deployment of DML processes and systems that allow robust reconstruction of molecular signals at reduced costs (see FIG. 6). [0045] The present disclosure provides system, apparatus, device, method and/or computer program product embodiments, and/or combinations and sub-combinations thereof that improve the scalability and performance across functional elements (e.g., genes) through DML processes and systems that leverage information between functional elements (see FIGS. 3A and 3B). [0046] The present disclosure provides system, apparatus, device, method and/or computer program product embodiments, and/or combinations and sub-combinations thereof for assessing the phenotypic impacts (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of one or more molecular (e.g., genotypic) variants in one or more (e.g., coding or non-coding) functional elements (e.g., protein-coding genes, non-coding genes, molecular domains such as protein or RNA domains, promoters, enhancers, silencers, regulatory binding sites, origins of replication, etc.) in the (e.g., nuclear, mitochondrial, etc.) genome(s), or their derivative molecules. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, a molecular variant may be a genotypic (e.g., sequence) variant such as a single-nucleotide variant (SNV), a copy-number variant (CNV), or an insertion or deletion affecting a coding or non-coding sequence (or both) in the nuclear, mitochondrial, or episomal genome -natural or synthetic. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, a molecular variant may also be a single-amino acid substitution in a protein molecule, a single-nucleotide substitution in a RNA molecule, a single-nucleotide substitution in a DNA molecule, or any other molecular alteration to the cognate sequence of a polymeric biological molecule. [0047] In some embodiments, the classification (or regression) may relate to (e.g., likely) disease-causing (e.g., pathogenic) and neutral (e.g., benign) variants for disorders with genetic components, or predictions of the severity thereof, on the basis of the molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record thereof of a subject. In some other embodiments, the classification (or regression) may relate to molecular impacts (e.g., loss-of-function, gain-of-function or neutral) on the basis of molecular variants of probable molecular consequence (e.g., nonsense or insertion and deletion mutations) and probable molecular neutrality (e.g., synonymous). In some other embodiments, the classification (or regression) may relate to variation in the response to therapeutic treatments (e.g., chemical, biochemical, physical, behavioral, digital, or otherwise) on the basis of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record thereof of a subject. In some embodiments, phenotypic impacts may refer to phenotype classes (e.g., neutral, pathogenic, benign, high-risk, low-risk, positive response variants, negative response variants) and phenotype scores (e.g., a probability of developing specific clinical and non-clinical phenotypes, the levels of metabolites in blood, and the rate at which specific compounds are absorbed or metabolized). [0048] In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides systems and methods for modeling the diversity and prevalence of phenotypic properties within a population on the basis of the diversity and prevalence of molecular variants in representative populations. In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides systems and methods for modeling the diversity and prevalence of phenotypic properties within a population on the basis of the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants -with known or expected diversity and prevalence-where the phenotypic impacts may be modeled from one or more molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals, previously associated with variants in an in vivo or in vitro functional model system. In some embodiments, such modeling may be used to inform on the diversity and prevalence of mechanisms of drug-resistance in a population. [0049] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the use of models of the diversity and prevalence of phenotypic properties within a population of individuals (e.g., as informed by the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants modeled from one or more molecular signals, phenotype signals, or populations signals in a functional model system) to construct cohorts of subjects (e.g., patients) and to investigate the efficacy of therapeutic and non-therapeutic interventions. [0050] In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides systems and methods for the classification (or regression) of the phenotypic impact of molecular variants on the basis of functional scores or functional classifications derived from one or more molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals associated with variants as assayed in a functional model system. In some embodiments, molecular variants may be functionally modeled within cells, cellular compartments or synthetic compartments as in vivo or in vitro model systems. [0051] In some embodiments, the molecular variants modeled (e.g., in vivo or in vitro) may be identified directly within the nucleic acid sequence of the functional elements modeled via library preparation, sequencing, and characterization of nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments within single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments (e.g., collectively termed model systems). In some other embodiments, the molecular variants modeled (e.g., in vivo or in vitro) may be inferred from barcode sequences associated with individual variants in the functional elements via library preparation, sequencing, and characterization of nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments within model systems (e.g., single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments), using a pre-assembled database of associated barcodes and variants. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, molecular variants may be produced via a diversity of techniques, such as direct (e.g., chemical) synthesis, error-prone PCR, oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis, nicking mutagenesis, or Saturation Genome Editing (SGE), among others (Fimberg et al. 2012; Kitzman et al. 2014; Wrenbeck et al. 2016; and Findlay et al. 2014). As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, variant libraries can be then introduced (e.g., added) into model systems (e.g., cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments) using a variety of approaches, such as but not limited to homologous recombination (e.g., Cas9-mediated or Adenovirus-mediated), site-specific recombination (e.g., Flp-mediated), or viral transduction (eg., lentiviral mediated) (Findlay et al. 2018; Wissink et al. 2016; and Macosko et al. 2015). [0052] In some embodiments, functional scores and functional classifications associated with individual molecular variants may be derived from measurements of molecules and or chemical modifications present within in vivo or in vitro model systems harboring the variant within the functional element, including but not limited to DNA, RNA, and protein molecules or modifications thereof For example, in some embodiments, measurements or models of molecular signals, cellular signals, or population signals may be made and used to learn the functional scores and or functional classifications. In some embodiments, the functional scores and functional classifications may be derived from molecular measurements obtained via nucleic acid barcoding, isolation, enrichment library preparation, sequencing, and characterization of a plurality ofnucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments within single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments including, but not limited to, RNA molecules, genomic DNA, chromatin-associated DNA, protein-associated DNA, accessible DNA fragments, or chemically-modified nucleic acids. In some embodiments, these procedures may utilize molecular barcoding techniques to uniquely identify or associate nucleic acids, nucleic acid fragments, or nucleic acid sequences stemming from individual single cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments (Macosko et al. 2015: Buenrostro et al. 2015; Cusanovich et al. 2015; Dixit et al. 2016; Adamson et al. 2016; Jaitin et al. 2016; Datlinger et al. 2017; Zheng et al. 2017; Cao et al. 2017). These methods may build on developments from the field of single-cell genomics (Schwartzman and Tanay 2015; Tanay and Regev 2017; Gawad et al. 2016). In some embodiments, the systems and methods of the present disclosure may apply methods for single-cell RNA sequencing to derive molecular measurements from single cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetics compartments. These methods include but are not limited to single-cell sequencing library generation, high-throughput nucleic acid sequencing, sequencing read quality control, barcode identification (e.g., of single-cell, cellular compartment, subcellular compartment, or synthetic compartment) and quality control, sequencing read unique molecular barcode identification and quality control, sequencing read alignments, as well as read alignment filtering and quality control. In some embodiments, molecular measurements may correspond to locus-specific measurements of gene expression (e.g., RNA transcript abundance), protein abundance or modifications (e.g., phospho-protein abundance), chromatin accessibility (e.g., nucleosome occupancy), epigenetic modification (e.g., DNA methylation), regulatory activity (e.g., transcription factor binding), post-transcriptional processing (e.g., splicing), post-translational modification (e.g., ubiquitination), mutation burden (e.g., count), mutation rate (e.g., frequency), mutation signatures (e.g., count or frequency per type of mutation), or various other types of measurements of molecules within single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for augmenting the quality of the molecular measurements for specific target genes and functional elements via the use targeted enrichment or targeted capture techniques -via hybridization- or amplicon-based techniques and probes- either before, during or after single-cell RNA library processing. [0053] In some embodiments, molecular measurements from single-cells, cellular (or subcellular) compartments or synthetic compartments may be utilized to derive multi locus measurements of molecular processes. For example, these measurements of molecular processes may include multi-locus measurements of gene expression, chromatin accessibility, epigenetic modification, regulatory activity, transcriptional activity, translational activity, signaling activity, signaling activity, pathway activity, mutation burden, mutation rate, mutation signatures, and various other measurements as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art. [0054] In some embodiments, molecular measurements and molecular processes from single-cells, cellular (or subcellular) compartments or synthetic compartments may be utilized to derive global (e.g., pan-locus or locus-independent) measurements of molecular features. For example, these measurements of molecular features may include global measurements of gene expression, chromatin accessibility, epigenetic modification, regulatory activity, transcriptional activity, translational activity, signaling activity, signaling activity, pathway activity, mutation burden, mutation rate, mutation signatures, and various other measurements as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art. [0055] In some embodiments, molecular measurements, molecular processes, or molecular features of single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments may serve directly as (e.g., lower-order) molecular scores. In some embodiments, a (e.g., higher-order) molecular score may be derived by applying pre-existing models that associate multiple lower-order (e.g., lower-order) molecular scores (e.g., molecular measurements, molecular processes, or molecular features) to regulatory, signaling, pathway, processing, cell-cycle activities, alterations, defects, or states. In some embodiments, such methods may apply gene set enrichment analysis or other derivative methods as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 8, the molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, or (e.g., lower-order) molecular scores 806 from single cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments harboring the same molecular variants 802 may be fed through a series of artificial neuron layers (e.g., convolutional or perceptron layers) in an Artificial Neural Network 804 (ANN) to derive increasingly complex (e.g., higher-order) molecular scores 806, and generate autoencoders with learned features. In some embodiments, methods for computing molecular scores, such as pathway level analyses, may be used to preserve information of biological function while allowing for dimensionality reduction. [0056] In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 9, a database of molecular scores may be constructed via a cell scoring layer 902 from a plurality of individual single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments. In some embodiments, the molecular scores from a plurality of single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments, harboring the same molecular variants 906 (e.g., vi, v2, and v3) may be accessed with a variant sampling layer 908 and analyzed in a variant scoring layer 910 to derive (e.g., directly measure or model) summary statistics relating to the tendency (e.g., mean, median, mode), dispersion (e.g., variance, standard deviation), shape (e.g., skewness, kurtosis), probability (e.g., quantiles), range (e.g., confidence interval, minimum, maximum), error (e.g., standard error), or covariation (e.g., covariance) of molecular scores associated with individual molecular variants. In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 9, summary statistics relating to the tendency, dispersion, shape, range, or error of molecular scores may be used to create a database of (e.g., quality-controlled) molecular signals 912 associated with individual molecular variants 906. In some embodiments, molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, and molecular scores 904 may be properties of individual single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments. In some embodiments, molecular signals may be a property of molecular variants. [0057] As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, the molecular measurements, processes, features, and scores from model systems (e.g., single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments) may define or correspond to distinct molecular states or specific subpopulations of model systems (e.g., single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments or synthetic compartments) with similar molecular properties. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art and as shown in FIG. 10, a cell scoring layer 1002 can be applied to determine the molecular states, phenotype scores 1006 (e.g., S, s 2 , S3) of model systems on the basis of a variety of methods. [0058] For example, the molecular states of model systems can be identified on the basis of cell-cycle signatures derived from gene-expression molecular scores (Macosko et al. 2015). As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, molecular states can be derived via scoring using previously-derived models -for example, scoring gene expression signatures of previously characterized molecular states such as gene expression signatures reflecting distinct phases of the cell-cycle previously characterized in chemically synchronized cells (Whitfield et al. 2002). As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, molecular states may also be derived via scoring using internally-derived models from partitions of model systems within which characteristic correlations between molecular signals can be detected or expected (e.g., as is the case with gene expression variation throughout distinct stages of cell-cycle). As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, the internally-derived models may be generated using a variety of statistical techniques (e.g., machine learning techniques). [0059] In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 7, the present disclosure provides systems and methods to generate a Phenotype Model (mp) for deriving phenotype scores through the use of statistical techniques (e.g., machine learning techniques) that associate molecular scores and molecular states of model systems (e.g., single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments or synthetic compartments) with the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants within each model system. Whereas molecular scores can relate directly to molecular, biological, or physical properties within individual model systems, phenotype scores can describe the (e.g., likely) phenotypic associations of molecular variants. In some embodiments, the phenotype scores are derived by applying supervised learning techniques to associate the phenotypic impacts (e.g., labels) of molecular variants within model systems with the molecular scores or molecular states (e.g., features) of model systems. [0060] In some embodiments, a Phenotype Model (mp) and database of phenotype scores (or phenotype classifications) is generated by accessing a database of features describing (e.g., lower- and higher-order) molecular scores and molecular states 704 of single-cells 702, and input labels 708 (e.g., a database) describing the phenotypic impact 706 of molecular variants identified within single-cells 702. In some embodiments, a training/validation layer 710 generates and quality-controls Phenotype Models (mp) that can predict the phenotypic impact 706 of individual single-cells 702. In some embodiments, a database of features describing the molecular scores and molecular states 716 of single-cells (testing) 714 are provided to the generated Phenotype Models (mp) to calculate and create a database of phenotype scores 720 describing the predicted phenotypic impact 718 of molecular variants in single-cells (testing) 714. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, the performance (e.g. accuracy) of the predicted phenotypic impacts 718 in each cell (e.g., phenotype scores 720) can be determined against the known phenotypic impact of molecular variants in single-cells (testing) 714 within a testing layer 712. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, the Phenotype Models (mp) can be applied to pre-compute or compute, on demand, the phenotype scores of single cells not included in training, validation, or testing. In some embodiments, such scoring and evaluation can occur in a phenotype scoring and classification layer 722. Phenotype scoring and classification layer 722 can examine the phenotype impact classification accuracy permitted on the basis of phenotype scores 720. [0061] In some embodiments, summary statistics relating to the tendency, dispersion, shape, range, or error of phenotype scores may be used to create a database of (e.g., quality-controlled) phenotype signals associated with individual molecular variants. [0062] In some embodiments, and as illustrated in FIG. 10, the present disclosure describes the use of molecular state-specific molecular signals for subsequent rounds of unsupervised and supervised learning, in either the generation of molecular state-specific models or multi-state models. In some embodiments and as illustrated in FIG. 10, the present disclosure describes the use of a molecular state-, variant-specific sampling layer 1008 to access the molecular measurements, processes, features, and scores 1004 and the molecular states, phenotype scores 1006 of model systems with specific molecular variants 1010 (e.g., vi, V2, V3) and in specific molecular states, with characteristic phenotype scores, or combinations thereof In some embodiments, the molecular measurements, processes, features, and scores 1004 or the molecular states, phenotype scores 1006 may be pre-computed or computed on demand by a cell scoring layer 1002. In some embodiments, data, summary statistics, descriptive statistics (e.g., univariate, bivariate, or multivariate analysis), inferential statistics, Bayesian inference models (e.g., variational Bayesian inference models), Dirichlet processes, or other models of the data accessed by the molecular state-, variant-specific sampling layer 1008 are used to construct a molecular, phenotype signals matrix 1012, describing molecular signals and phenotype signals in each molecular state for each molecular variant. [0063] In some embodiments, the molecular, phenotype signals matrix 1012 may be pre computed or computed on demand. In some embodiments, the molecular, phenotype signals matrix 1012 may be pre-computed or computed on demand by a molecular state, variant-specific scoring layer 1016 yielding matrices that are molecular state-specific. In some embodiments, the molecular, phenotype signals matrix 1012 may be pre-computed or computed on demand by a multi-state, variant-specific scoring layer 1014, yielding matrices that contain data from multiple molecular states. [0064] In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 11, the present disclosure provides methods for characterizing the distribution of cells with specific molecular variants across molecular states (e.g., sub-populations) or phenotype scores 1106, as produced by a cell scoring layer 1102 using molecular measurements, processes, features and scores 1104 as inputs. These molecular states (e.g., sub-populations) or phenotype scores may be associated with, but not limited to, subpopulations of cells defined by (a) characteristic levels of or correlations between molecular signals (e.g., cyclin dependent kinases during the cell-cycle stage), whether determined by the application of pre-existing or internally- derived models, (b) characteristic levels of or correlations between phenotype scores, or (c) unsupervised or supervised machine learning methods, including but not limited to dimensionality reduction techniques, examples of which include but are not limited to Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Independent Component Analysis (ICA), and t Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (tSNE). In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 11, for each individual molecular variant 1110, a population sampling layer 1108 produces metrics of the relative representation (e.g., distribution, probability, etc.) of cells across molecular states (e.g., the proportion or the probability of variant-harboring cells residing in a molecular state) or phenotype scores (e.g., the proportion or the probability of variant-harboring cells having a particular score), and may serve to provide a population signals matrix 1112 describing how molecular variants affect cells at the population-level. The population signals matrix 1112 may contain a plurality of population signals for a plurality of molecular variants. [0065] In some embodiments, subsampling of molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, molecular scores, or phenotype scores from model systems (e.g., single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments) harboring the same molecular variant may be applied to generate independent or disjoint estimates of summary statistics relating to the tendency, dispersion, shape, probability, range, covariation, or error of molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, or molecular scores or phenotype scores associated with individual molecular variants. [0066] In some embodiments, independent or disjoint estimates of summary statistics relating to the tendency, dispersion, shape, probability, range, covariation, or error of molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, molecular scores or phenotype scores may be used to create a database of (quality-controlled) independent or disjoint estimates of molecular signals or phenotype signals associated with individual molecular variants. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, independent or disjoint estimates of molecular signals or phenotype signals can be used to create a database of (quality-controlled) molecular or phenotype signals associated with individual molecular variants. [0067] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for deriving independent or disjoint estimates of summary statistics relating to the tendency, dispersion, shape, probability, range, covariation, or error of molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, or molecular scores or phenotype scores associated with individual molecular variants within subpopulations of model systems (e.g., single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments) from specific molecular states. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, these methods may leverage a plurality of statistical techniques (e.g., machine learning techniques). [0068] In some embodiments, molecular state-specific independent or disjoint estimates of summary statistics relating to the tendency, dispersion, shape, probability, range, covariation, or error of molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, molecular scores or phenotype scores may be used to create a database of (e.g., quality controlled) molecular state-specific, independent and disjoint estimates of molecular signals and phenotype signals associated with individual molecular variants in specific molecular states. [0069] In some embodiments, independent or disjoint estimates of summary statistics relating to the tendency, dispersion, shape, probability, range, covariation, or error of population signals associated with individual molecular variants may be used to create a database of (e.g., quality-controlled) population signals associated with individual molecular variants. [0070] In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 12, the present disclosure provides systems and methods leveraging a feature extraction layer 1208 (e.g., unsupervised learning techniques) for the identification of higher-order molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals from lower-order molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals 1204 associated with individual molecular variants 1202, including but not limited to feature learning (or representation learning) techniques deploying Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) 1210 to generate auto-encoders capable of leveraging subjacent associations to yield higher-order representations of lower-order molecular, phenotype, or population signals. In some embodiments, these methods allow the construction of databases lower- and higher-order molecular signals, phenotype signals, and population signals 1214. In some embodiments, the feature extraction layer 1208 may access or receive data from annotation features 1206, in addition to the lower-order molecular signal, phenotype signals, or population signals 1204. In some embodiments, the annotation features 1206 may encompass a plurality of independent (e.g., non-assayed) features (e.g., evolutionary, population, functional (e.g., annotation-based), structural, dynamical, and physicochemical features associated with variants, genomic coordinates, transcript (e.g., RNA) coordinates, translated (e.g., protein) coordinates, amino acids, and various others as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art), describing changes associated with the changes in genotype (e.g., sequence, molecular variants, etc.). [0071] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the use of molecular state specific, lower-order molecular signals or phenotype signals for the derivation of molecular state-specific higher-order molecular signals or phenotype signals. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the use of multi-state matrices of lower order molecular, phenotype, or population signals to derive multi-state higher-order molecular, phenotype, or population signals, leveraging structured relationships between molecular signals across molecular states, such as structured gene expression patterns (e.g., molecular signals) across cell-cycle stages (e.g., molecular states). In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the use of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to learn patterned-associations in molecular, phenotype, or population signals (and annotation features) across molecular states. [0072] In some embodiments, and as illustrated in FIG. 13, the present disclosure provides systems and methods for deriving functional scores and functional classifications via statistical (e.g., machine) learning to generate a Functional Model (mF) that associates molecular, phenotype, or population signals (e.g., features) -a single or plurality of molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, and molecular scores- with phenotypic impacts (e.g., labels) of molecular variants via regression and classification techniques, respectively. [0073] In some embodiments, a Functional Model (mF) and a database of functional scores (or functional classifications) is generated by accessing a database of features describing molecular (e.g., lower-order or higher-order), phenotype, or population signals 1304 of molecular variants 1302 for training/validation, and a set of input labels 1310 (e.g., a database) describing the phenotypic impacts 1308 of molecular variants 1302. The generating is further performed by applying statistical (e.g., machine) learning techniques to associate molecular, phenotype, or population signals 1304 (e.g., features) to phenotypic impacts (e.g., labels). [0074] In some embodiments, a training/validation layer 1312 performs training and validation to generate quality-control Functional Models (mF) that can predict the phenotypic impacts 1308 of molecular variants 1302. In some embodiments, training/validation layer 1312 can deploy cross-validation techniques, such as, but not limited to, K-fold or Leave-One-Out Cross-Validation (LOOCV). In some embodiments, a database of features describing the molecular, phenotype, or population signals 1318 of molecular variants (testing) 1316 can be provided to the generated Functional Models (mF)tocalculate and create a database of functional scores 1324 describing the predicted phenotypic impact 1322 of molecular variants (testing) 1316. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, the performance (e.g. accuracy) of the predicted phenotypic impacts 1322 (e.g., functional score 1324) of molecular variants can be determined against known phenotypic impacts of molecular variants, such as testing molecular variants 1316. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, the Functional Models (mF) can be applied to pre-compute, or compute on demand, the functional scores of molecular variants not included in training, validation, or testing phases within a testing layer 1314. In some embodiments, such scoring and evaluation can occur in a functional scoring and classification layer 1326 to, for example, examine the phenotype impact classification accuracy permitted on the basis of functional scores 1324. [0075] In some embodiments, additional annotation features 1306, 1320 may be provided during training and testing (prediction generation) of Functional Models (m). Insome embodiments, the annotation features 1306 and 1320 may encompass a plurality of independent (e.g., non-assayed) features (e.g., evolutionary, population, functional (e.g., annotation-based), structural, dynamical, and physicochemical features associated with variants, genomic coordinates, transcript (e.g., RNA) coordinates, translated (e.g., protein) coordinates, amino acids, and various others as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art), describing changes associated with the changes in genotype (e.g., sequence, molecular variants). [0076] As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, a diverse array of sources for phenotypic impacts (e.g., labels) of molecular variants can be used to define Truth Sets, including (e.g., public and or private) clinical and non-clinical variant databases (e.g., ClinVar, HumVar, VariBench, SwissVar, PhenCode, PharmGKB, or locus-specific databases), and outcome databases. [0077] In some other embodiments, the present disclosure provides systems and methods for deriving functional scores and functional classifications via statistical (e.g., machine) learning to generate a Functional Model (mF) that associates molecular, phenotype, or population signals (e.g., features) -derived from one or more molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, and/or molecular scores- with phenotypic impacts (e.g., labels) of molecular variants computed directly from distinct molecular, phenotype, or population signals, via regression and classification techniques. In some embodiments, this approach may permit, for example, deriving functional scores and functional classifications that predict the relative mutation burden, mutation rate, or mutation signatures of samples from subjects harboring specific molecular variants. In some embodiments, functional scores or functional classifications from such assays may permit informing on the lifetime risk of developing cancer in test subjects. [0078] As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, regression and classification to generate Functional Models (mF'S) may rely on various statistical (e.g., machine) learning techniques for semi-supervised or supervised learning, including, but not limited to, Random Forests (RFs), Gradient Boosted Trees (GBTs), Zero Rules (ZRs), Naive Bayesian (NBs), Simple Logistic Regression (LRs), Support Vector Machines (SVMs), k-Nearest Neighbors (kNNs), and approaches deploying a wide-array of Artificial Neural Network (ANN) architectures and techniques. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the use of molecular state-specific, molecular signals for the derivation of molecular state-specific functional scores or functional classifications. In some other embodiments, the present disclosure describes the use of multi-state matrices of molecular signals for the derivation of molecular state-aware functional scores or functional classifications. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the use of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to learn pattemed-associations between functional scores or functional classifications and molecular signals distributed across molecular states. [0079] FIG. 1A illustrates the application of DML processes and systems in genes of the RAS/MAPK pathway, according to some embodiments. The RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway can play a role in cellular proliferation, differentiation, survival and death, and somatic mutations in RAS/MAPK genes can have a role in the development, progression, and therapeutic response of diverse cancer types through the activation and disregulation of MAPK/ERK signaling. In addition, inherited (e.g., germline) mutations in RAS/MAPK genes have been associated with multiple autosomal dominant congenital syndromes, including but not limited to Noonan syndrome (NS), Costello syndrome (CS), and cardio-facio-cutaneous (CFC) syndrome, and LEOPARD syndrome (LS), which present in patients with characteristic facial appearances, heart defects, musculocutaneous abnormalities, and mental retardation, as well as abnormalities of the skin, inner ears and genitalia (Aoki et al. 2008). For example, mutations in the protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11) and the dual specificity mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 genes (MAP2K1, MAP2K2) have been recurrently observed in Noonan and CFC patients, with PTPN1 Imutations present in as many as 50% of Noonan patients (Aoki et al. 2008). [0080] Embodiments can use wildtype, somatic, and germline molecular variants of key RAS/MAPK pathway constituents, such as HRAS (e.g., G12V), PTPN11 (e.g., E76K and N308D), and MAP2K2 (e.g., F57C and P128Q), that are constructed and overexpressed in HEK293 cells. Embodiments can select cells with 1mg/ml puromycin to ensure expression of the exogenously introduced functional elements (e.g., genes), and RAS/MAPK pathway activation can be verified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) for phospho-ERK protein and total ERK protein abundances (see FIG. 5). To generate single-cell RNA-seq data, embodiments can target for capture 500 cells for each molecular variant using a loX Genomics Chromium system. Capture and subsequent single-cell library generation can be performed according to manufacturer's recommendations. The resultant libraries for each functional element (e.g.,, gene) can be pooled and sequenced on an Illumina MiniSeq sequencer until the average reads per cell for each genotype exceeds 30,000 reads/cell. Single-cell RNA-seq processing (e.g., single cell quality control, normalizations, transcriptome counts, etc.) can be performed using the 1OX Genomics Cell Ranger 2.1.0 pipeline and default settings. [0081] FIGS. lB and IC, illustrate the projection of mammalian cells (e.g., HEK293) harboring wildtype and mutantPTPN11 andAL4P2K2, for molecular variants associated with germline disorders (F57C, P128Q, and N308D) as well as somatic disorders (E76K), according to some embodiments. Cells can be projected on a two-dimensional plane derived by t-Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (tSNE) on the basis of molecular scores (e.g., lower-order) determined from scaled, normalized unique molecular identifier (UMI) counts of single-cell gene expression, according to some embodiments. For each gene, tSNE projections are shown based on higher-order molecular scores derived via application of broad, generalized algorithms standard in the field (e.g., Principal Component Analysis, PCA) and custom-developed solutions, including cell-type, gene or pathway-specific Autoencoders (AE) trained for robust, compressed representation of lower-order molecular scores. In some embodiments, the Autoencoder can be constructed as a neural network with fully connected layers, containing symmetric numbers of neurons (e.g., across layers) around the middle layer, and with rectified linear-units (ReLu) for activation. In some embodiments, the Autoencoder can be trained using an Adam optimizer and optimized against a mean-squared error (MSE) loss function. [0082] As illustrated in FIGS. 1B and IC, cellular projections from customized, cell-type and pathway-specific Autoencoders (AEs) can improve the hyperdimensional separation between model systems (e.g., cells) harboring neutral (e.g., wildtype) and disease associated molecular variants (e.g., N308D, E76K), relative to generalized dimensionality reduction algorithms. A Denoising Autoencoder (AE) was trained on 8.3 Million lower order molecular scores from greater than 18,800 genes detected in 3,495 single HEK293 cells harboring wildtype and mutant versions of RAS/MAPK genes. Training was performed in 30 epochs with a mini-batch size of 10, with noise simulations following a randomized 5% reduction in the sampling of UMI counts between epochs. The architecture of the utilized fully-connected, symmetric Autoencoder is shown in FIG. 4. Whereas conventional approaches in the domain for the scaling, normalization, and dimensionality reduction of lower-order molecular scores can fail to separate the tSNE projections of cells harboring Noonan syndrome (NS; N308D) molecular variants and wildtype PTPN11, customized cell-type and pathway-specific Autoencoders can show a robust separation of cells harboring somatic (E76K) and germline (N308D) disorder molecular variants from wildtype cells in PTPN1. [0083] According to some embodiments, FIGS. 14A and 14B illustrates the performance of systems and methods for the binomial classification of molecular variants with two distinct phenotypic impacts as determined in mammalian cells harboring either disease associated (e.g., pathogenic) genotypic (e.g., sequence) variants (e.g., G12V) and a wild- type (e.g., benign) genotypic (e.g., sequence) version of the human HRAS gene, or a third member of the RAS/MAPK pathway which encodes the onco-protein h-Ras (also known as transforming protein p21). A small G protein in the Ras subfamily of the Ras superfamily of small GTPases, h-Ras -once bound to guanosine triphosphate- can activate RAF-family kinases (e.g., c-Raf), leading to cellular activation of the MAPK/ERK pathway. [0084] FIG. 14A illustrates the projection 1402 ofwildtype and mutant mammalian cells (HEK293) on the two-dimensional plane derived by t-Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (tSNE) of cells on the basis of their normalized, single-cell gene expression measurements. As indicated in FIG. 14A, lower-order molecular scores can be derived from the molecular measurements of greater than 33,500 genes, with an average of -3,500 molecular measurements made per cell. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) can be applied to derive higher-order molecular scores that reduce the dimensionality of the lower-order molecular scores. Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs) can be applied to assign the projected cells to molecular states 1404, defining, for example, N=6 sub populations of cells on the basis of the lower-order molecular scores derived from their normalized, single-cell gene expression measurements (e.g., UMI counts). Pseudo disease-associated genotypes and benign genotypes can be generated by randomly assigning mutant and wildtype cells to, for example, kp=15 disease-associated and kB=15 benign pseudo-populations, respectively. To train and test a machine learning Functional Model (mF) capable of discriminating between disease-associated and benign genotypes, pseudo-populations (kpl-15, kB1-15) can be divided into training and testing sets applying, for example, an 80/20 cross-validation scheme, resulting in, for example, kTpN=12 training and kTES= 3 testing genotypes of each class label (e.g., disease associated and benign), collectively termed a Truth Set. This procedure can be repeated, for example, i=25 iterations in each off-5 folds, wherein within each fold the cells within the pseudo-population (e.g., kp1-15, kB1-15) can be sampled with replacement to retain, for example, 20%, 40%, 60%, 80%, or 100% of the cells. In each iteration, fold, and sampling, lower-order molecular signals and higher-order molecular signals for disease associated and benign genotypes can be computed as the mean of the lower-order molecular scores and higher-order scores, respectively. In each iteration, fold, and sampling, population signals for disease-associated and benign genotypes can be determined as the fraction of cells corresponding to each of the, for example, N=6 sub populations. In each iteration, fold, and sampling, a machine learning Functional Model (mF) can partition disease-associated and benign genotypes from the Truth Set on the basis of the lower-order molecular signals, higher-order molecular signals, or population signals observed in the kTRAIN data. This Functional Model (mF) can be trained utilizing a 1Ox cross-validation strategy as well as a Random Forest estimator to partition variants. In each iteration, fold, and sampling, the trained Functional Model (mF) can predict the class label (e.g., disease-associated or benign) of the kTEST pseudo-populations on the basis of their lower-order molecular signals, higher-order molecular signals, or population signals. As illustrated in FIG. 14B, this approach can result in robust discrimination between disease-associated and benign genotypes on the basis of the lower-order molecular signals, higher-order molecular signals, and population signals determined within populations of mutant and wildtype cells. [0085] To evaluate the performance of DML processes and systems as a scalable solution for the accurate identification of disease-associated (e.g., pathogenic) molecular variants across multiple genes and disorders, a uniform, distributed DML processing pipeline can be deployed for the pre-processing, scaling, normalization, dimensionality reduction, and computation of molecular and population signals on, for example, three genes of the RAS/MAPK pathway, HRAS, PTPN11, andMAP2K2. Applying a similar training/testing schema for the evaluation of classification accuracies as above, the DML processes can achieve (e.g., median) raw classification accuracies 202 of ~99.9% and ~100% in the analysis of somatic cancer-driving molecular variants in HRAS (e.g., G12V) and PTPN11 (e.g., E76K), respectively, and (e.g., median) raw classification accuracies 204 of ~98.5% and ~96.1% in the analysis of molecular variants form germline (e.g., inherited) disorders in PTPN11 (e.g., N308D) and MAP2K2 (e.g., F57C, P128Q), respectively, as demonstrated in FIG. 2A. The balanced accuracies 206, 208 (e.g., Matthews Correlation Coefficient, MCC) in the classification of molecular variants known to cause somatic disorders in HRAS, somatic disorders in PTPN11, germline disorders in PTPN11, and MAP2K2, can be ~99.4%, ~100%, ~95.2%, and ~90.1 %, germline disorders in respectively, as shown in FIG. 2B. The raw classification accuracies (e.g., ACC) and balanced classification accuracies (e.g., MCC) in the analysis of disease-associated (e.g., somatic and germline, combined) molecular variants can be ~98.4% and ~95.6%, respectively, on the basis of the herein described molecular and population signals. [0086] In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides systems and methods for the derivation of model system-level (e.g., cell-level) phenotypic scores through application of statistical machine learning models to associate lower-order and higher order molecular scores with the known phenotypic impacts of variants harbored within model systems (e.g., cells). FIGS. 3A and 3B illustrates the cell-level raw classification accuracy of machine learning models trained to derive phenotypic scores in cells harboring wildtype and mutant versions ofMAP2K2, according to some embodiments. [0087] In FIG. 3A, germline and enhanced bars can indicate the average classification accuracy of test cells harboringMAP2K2 germline-disorder molecular variants excluded from training, on the basis of cell phenotype scores, where training was exclusively based on MAP2K2 neutral and germline-disorder molecular variants (e.g., germline 302) or included data from PTPN11 germline-disorder molecular variants (e.g., enhanced 304). Germline 302 and enhanced 304 bars in FIG. 3B indicate the average classification accuracy of test MAP2K2 germline-disorder molecular variants excluded from training, as determined on the basis of the predominant cell phenotype scores for populations of cells with varying numbers of cells. As in FIG. 3A, germline and enhanced bars can correspond to the raw accuracies in classification of test molecular variants where training was exclusively based onMAP2K2 neutral and germline-disorder molecular variants (e.g., germline) or included data from PTPN1 Igermline-disorder molecular (e.g., enhanced). [0088] FIGS. 3A and 3B illustrates data obtained with a logistic regression (LR) classifier trained for binary classification of cells harboring disease-associated molecular variants and cells harboring wildtype MAP2K2, on the basis of higher-order molecular scores computed as the top 100 principal components from (e.g., scaled and or normalized) lower-order molecular scores. Sets of cells for training and testing can be created by partitioning molecular variants into training and testing bins, and partitioning cells into corresponding training and testing sets on the molecular variant genotypes, such that specific sets of cells with specific disease-associated molecular variant are excluded from training. As such, classification test performance can be computed on complete populations of cells harboring variants excluded from training. As shown in FIGS. 3A and 3B, the average per-cell classification accuracy across molecular variants associated with germline (e.g., inherited) disorders in MAP2K2 can be ~80.3%. [0089] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the learning and prediction of the phenotypic consequences of molecular variants on the basis of molecular, phenotype, or population signals assayed in multiple genes, molecular elements, within the same, related, or interacting pathways. As shown in FIGS. 3A and 3B, inclusion of data from PTPN11 molecular variants associated with germline (e.g., inherited) disorders can increase the average per-cell classification accuracy across germline-disorder molecular variants inMAP2K2 from ~80.3% (e.g., germline 302) to ~92.8% (e.g., enhanced 304), thereby demonstrating the ability of the disclosed DML processes and systems to identify and leverage coherent cellular properties for accurate classification of the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants across multiple functional elements. As shown in FIGS. 3A and 3B, the increased performance in per-cell classification can result in increases in classification of molecular variants on the basis of the majority-type classification from populations of cells harboring molecular variants. [0090] In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides systems and methods for deriving functional scores and functional classifications for individual functional elements (e.g., individual genes). In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides methods for deriving functional scores and functional classifications across a multitude of functional elements leveraging concordant molecular signals across molecular variants within a plurality of functional elements. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods combining the use of mutagenesis, molecular barcoding, molecular cloning, and cellular pooling techniques to generate populations of cells in which molecular variants in distinct functional elements are uniquely created, barcoded, or both. [0091] In some embodiments, independent or disjoint estimates of molecular, phenotype, or population signals (e.g., features) may be used to derive independent or disjoint functional scores and functional classifications via statistical (e.g., machine) learning to associate molecular signals (e.g., features) with phenotypic impacts (e.g., labels) of molecular variants via regression and classification techniques, respectively. [0092] In some embodiments, feature weights from statistical (e.g., machine) learning models generated using independent or disjoint estimates of each molecular, phenotype, or population signal are computed, collected and utilized for robust feature selection using techniques as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides methods for deriving functional scores and functional classifications via statistical (e.g., machine) learning to associate the identified robust molecular, phenotype, or population signals (e.g., robust features) with phenotypic impacts (e.g., labels) of molecular variants via regression and classification techniques, respectively. [0093] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for deriving functional scores and functional classifications from a plurality of statistical (e.g., machine) learning models generated using independent or disjoint estimates of molecular signals, applying either model selection or model combination (e.g., mixing) techniques (Pan et al. 2006). [0094] In some embodiments applying model selection techniques, a model selection criterion measuring the predictive performance of a model or the probability of it being the true model may be used to compare the models and selection can be applied to maximize an estimate of the selection criterion. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, a diversity of model selection criteria can be applied, including (but not limited to) the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC), Cross-Validation (CV), Bootstrap (Efron 1983; Efron 1986; Efron and Tibshirani 1997), or adaptive model selection criteria (George and Foster 2000: Shen and Ye 2002; Shen et al. 2004) computed on the training data or input test data, as exemplified by test input-dependent weights (IDWs). The IDW for a candidate model may be defined as the probability of the model giving a correct prediction for a given input or a reasonable measure to quantify the predictive performance of the model for the input test data (Pan et al. 2006). [0095] In some other embodiments applying model combination techniques, a combined model can be generated by applying ensemble methods, by taking an equally or unequally weighted average of the outputs from individual models (Ripley 2008; Hastie et al. 2001). For example, ensemble methods can include but are not limited to Bayesian model averaging, stacking, bagging, random forests, boosting, ARM, and using performance metrics (e.g., AIC and BIC) as weights computed on training data (Burnham and Anderson 2003; Hastie et al. 2001) or computed on input test data (Pan et al. 2006). In some other embodiments applying model combination techniques, a combined model can be generated applying an Artificial Neural Network (ANN) architecture. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for deriving functional scores and functional classifications from a plurality of statistical (e.g., machine) learning models generated using independent or disjoint estimates of molecular signals that involve applying various noise-control techniques (e.g., a Bootstrap Ensemble with Noise Algorithm (Yuval Raviv 1996)). [0096] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for estimating functional scores and functional classifications for molecular variants applying statistical (e.g., machine) learning techniques to generate an Inference Model (m) that models the relationship between (e.g., assay end-points) functional scores or functional classifications and a plurality of dependent (e.g., assayed) features (e.g., molecular, phenotype, or population signals) or independent (e.g., non-assay) features (e.g., evolutionary, population, functional (e.g., annotation-based), structural, dynamical, and physicochemical features associated with variants, genomic coordinates, transcript (e.g., RNA) coordinates, translated (e.g., protein) coordinates, amino acids, and various others as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art). As would be appreciate by a person of ordinary skill in the art, such Inference Model (m) may permit estimating functional scores and functional classifications for molecular variants with or without the explicit use of molecular, phenotype, or population signals, molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features, or molecular scores. In some embodiments, such methods may permit inferring sequence-function maps describing functional scores and functional classifications for molecular variants beyond those for which the functional scores and functional classifications were directly assayed. In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 15, such systems and methods may permit inferring a sequence function map 1514 describing the functional scores or functional classifications for all possible non-synonymous variants in a protein coding gene using functional scores and functional classifications from a sequence function map 1502, representing a subset of the possible non-synonymous variants. In some embodiments, this inference can utilize a score regression layer 1504 that accesses an annotation matrix 1506, consisting of annotation features 1508, labels 1510, and functional scores 1512 as inputs. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, a multiplicity of statistical validation and cross-validation techniques can be applied to monitor and ensure the accuracy of estimated functional scores and functional classifications. [0097] In some embodiments, and as illustrated in FIG. 16, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining the phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants through a series of modeling layers that (a) collect or generate existing knowledge or reliable predictions of the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants, (b) enlarge the set of molecular variants with known or predicted phenotypic impacts through functional modeling (e.g., performed via a Functional Modeling Engine (FME)) of sampled molecular variants of known, high-confidence predicted, and unknown phenotypic impacts, and (c) further complete the set of molecular variants with known or predicted phenotypic impacts through inference modeling. In combination, these layers can expand (or optimize) the scope of the Truth Sets available for Functional Model (mF) 1607 generation and reduce (or optimize) the required scope of Functional Model (mF) 1607 generated support for Inference Model (m) 1609 generation. In some embodiments, these systems and methods can overcome limitations in training, validation, and testing for functional elements (e.g., genes) and contexts with limited availability of molecular variants of known phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect). Such systems and methods thereby enable elucidating the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants for functional elements (e.g., genes) with otherwise limited data for model generation and can reduce overall costs. [0098] In some embodiments, and as illustrated in FIG. 16, such systems and methods may combine one or more of the following modeling layers to achieve this: (1) a Prediction Model (mp) 1603, (2) a Sampling Model (ms) 1605, (3) a Functional Model (mF) 1607, and (4) an Inference Model (m) 1609. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods that access molecular variants with known phenotypic impacts (e.g., pathogenic or benign) from pre-existing sources to populate a sequence-function map 1602 describing the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants in a gene/functional element. In some embodiments, a well-characterized Prediction Model (mp) 1603 can be used to generate an enhanced sequence-function map 1604, incorporating the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants with high-confidence predictions. In some embodiments, a Sampling Model (ms) 1605 is applied to generate a set of genotypes (e.g. molecular variants) 1606 containing (a) a Truth Set by selecting or sub-sampling molecular variants with known or high-confidence, predicted phenotypic impacts, and (b) a Target Set of molecular variants of unknown phenotypic impacts. [0099] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes the use of statistical (e.g., machine) learning to generate a Functional Model (mF) 1607 that associates molecular, phenotype, or population signals and functional scores and functional classifications as learned from molecular variants in the Truth Set (e.g., from genotypes 1606) to predict the functional scores and functional classifications of molecular variants in the Target Set (e.g., from genotypes 1606), thereby yielding a sequence-function map of functional scores 1608. [0100] In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 16, the Functional Model (mF) 1607 accesses enhanced Truth Sets 1611 and 1612 that include molecular and population signals from a plurality of functional elements (e.g., genes) in the same, related, or interacting pathways. This capability can allow the system to generate a Functional Model (mF) 1607 for functional elements (e.g., genes) with limited availability -or devoid- of molecular variants with known or high-confidence, predicted phenotypic impacts, on the basis of molecular, phenotype, or population signals from functional elements (e.g., genes) with coherent mechanisms of action. FIGS. 3A and 3B illustrates an example of this. [0101] In some embodiments, the phenotypic impacts of known molecular variants, high confidence predicted molecular variants, and functionally-modeled molecular variants can be leveraged by an Inference Model (ml) 1609 that models the relationship between phenotypic impacts and a plurality of dependent (e.g., assayed) features (e.g., molecular, phenotype, or population signals) or independent (e.g., non-assay) features (e.g., evolutionary, population, functional (e.g., annotation-based), structural, dynamical, and physicochemical features associated with variants, genomic coordinates, transcript (e.g., RNA) coordinates, translated (e.g., protein) coordinates, amino acids, and various others, as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art) to yield an augmented sequence-function of functional scores 1610. As would be appreciate by a person of ordinary skill in the art, such Inference Model (m) 1609 may permit estimating the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants with or without the explicit use of molecular, phenotype, or population signals. [0102] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for the optimization of cost-efficiency of molecular variant classification through the staged deployment ofDeep MutationalLearning (DML) processes and systems on Truth and Target (Query) Sets of molecular variants. Some embodiments include a Stage I Optimization 610 step as illustrated in, for example, FIG. 6), where model systems (e.g., cells) harboring Truth Set variants are assayed at high model system (e.g., cell) number and read-depth -in Cell Number, Read-Depth Optimization 612- to generate high-quality data for Dimensionality Reduction Model (mDR) 614 -such as an Autoencoder (mAE)- and Functional Model (mF) 616 optimizations. In this first stage, dimensionality reduction and classification accuracies for the target phenotypic impacts of molecular variants can be optimized to identify combinations of Dimensionality Reduction Models (614), Functional Models (616), and Cell-Numbers, Read-Depths (612) that guarantee robust target performance. In some embodiments, subsampling and noise simulations can be utilized to train and model performance of Dimensionality Reduction Models and Functional Models. As illustrated in FIG. 6, some embodiments include a Stage II Production620 step, where model systems (e.g., cells) harboring Target Set variants and, optionally, Truth Set variants can be assayed in deployments with (e.g., optimal or minimal) Cell-Numbers and/or Read-Depths 622 identified as robust when specific Dimensionality Reduction Models 624 and Functional Models 626 are deployed. [0103] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining the phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record of a subject on the basis of the functional scores and functional classifications determined as described above. In some embodiments, time-stamped records of incorporation of functional scores and functional classifications for a set of (e.g., a plurality of unique) molecular variants may be created, evaluated, validated, selected, and applied to determine the phenotypic impact of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record of a subject. [0104] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining the phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record of a subject on the basis of the predictor scores or predictor classifications from computational predictors generated by applying statistical (e.g., machine) learning methods to leverage the functional scores and functional classifications. [0105] In some embodiments, and as illustrated in FIG. 17, the present disclosure describes methods for generating (e.g., lower-order) Variant Interpretation Engines (VIEs) that can be gene- and condition-specific, through statistical (e.g., machine) learning techniques that model the phenotypic impacts 1712 of molecular variants on the basis of input labels 1714 and an annotation matrix 1706 comprising their functional scores 1702, 1708 (or functional classifications) and other annotation features 1710, including commonly used features in the creation of the computational predictors, including but not limited to evolutionary, population, functional (e.g., annotation-based), structural, dynamical, and physicochemical features associated with variants and residues of functional elements. In some embodiments, the training and validation layer 1704 may employ cross-validation techniques 1716 (e.g., K-fold or LOOCV) to train and quality control VIEs that are subsequently evaluated by a testing layer 1718 to derive predictor scores 1720 used in molecular variant classification. [0106] In some embodiments, the present disclosure further describes systems and methods for generating pathway- and condition-specific (higher-order) Variant Interpretation Engines (VIEs) applying model combination techniques that integrate (lower-order) gene- and condition-specific Variant Interpretation Engines (VIEs) from a plurality of genes in target pathways of interest. In other embodiments, the present disclosure further describes systems and methods for generating pathway- and condition specific (higher-order) Variant Interpretation Engines (VIEs) through statistical (e.g., machine) learning techniques that model the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants on the basis of their functional scores, functional classifications, and other features commonly used in the creation of the computational predictors, including but not limited to evolutionary, population, functional (annotation-based), structural, dynamical, and physicochemical features associated with variants and residues of functional elements. [0107] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining the phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record thereof of a subject on the basis of the hotspot scores and hotspot classifications from mutational hotspots computed by applying spatial clustering techniques to identify networks of residues with specificphenotypic impacts leveraging the herein-described and enabled functional scores, functional classifications, and molecular signals associated with molecular variants and residues. [0108] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for deriving a matrix of functional distances between molecular variants or their corresponding residues by (1) computing a distance metric between molecular variants projected in the N-dimensional space (1 N M) defined by a set of M of functional scores, functional classifications, and molecular signals (as described above), where N< M when dimensionality-reduction techniques are applied to reduce the feature-space of molecular variants. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, various dimensionality-reduction techniques may be applied including but not limited to techniques reliant on linear transformations -as in principal component analysis (PCA) or non-linear transformations -as in the manifold learning techniques (e.g., t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (tSNE) and kernel principal component analysis (kPCA)). As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, various distance metrics can be utilized, including but not limited to, the Euclidean distance, Manhattan distance (e.g., City-Block), Mahalanobis distance, or Chebychev distance, and various others. [0109] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for the identification of Significantly Mutated Regions (SMRs) and Networks (SMNs) by measuring and scoring the phenotype-associated mutation density (e.g., number of observed phenotype-associated variants per residue) within spatially-proximal residues of functional elements (e.g., protein-coding genes) through the application of spatial clustering techniques across a plurality of spatial distance metrics, including the herein described and enabled functional distances, sequence distances, structure distances, (co)evolutionary distances, and combinations thereof [0110] In some embodiments, and as illustrated in FIG. 18, the identification of SMRs/SMNs may apply a Training/Validation Layer 1804 to identify spatial clustering among phenotypically-related or functionally-related molecular variants 1806 as determined on the basis of commonalities in the functional scores of molecular variants. In some embodiments, these commonalities may be identified from the functional scores of molecular variants in a sequence-function map of a protein-coding gene 1802. [0111] In some embodiments, and as illustrated in FIG. 18, the identification of SMRs/SMNs in the Training/Validation Layer 1804 may comprise a series of steps, including but not limited to: (1) SMR/SMN-detection techniques 1805 for the identification of single-residues or networks of residues that are enriched in molecular variants with specific phenotypic associations as have been previously described (Araya et al. 2016, U.S. Patent Application 20160378915A1), and (2) SMR/SMN-selection techniques 1815. [0112] SMR/SMN-detection techniques 1805 can comprise a series of steps including but not limited to: (1.1) projection 1810 of phenotype-associated molecular variants 1806 in functional, sequence, structural, or (co)evolutionary dimensions (or combinations thereof), (1.2) application of spatial clustering techniques 1812 (e.g., DBSCAN) to detect clusters of spatially-proximal phenotype-associated variants, and (1.3) measurement of mutation density, scoring number of phenotype-associated variants per residue in cluster. [0113] SMN-detection techniques 1805 can further comprise the steps denoted in 1814 including, but not limited to: (1.4) scoring of mutation density probability by, for example, computing the (e.g., binomial) probability of obtaining k-or-more (e.g., greater than or equal to k) observed phenotype-associated variants per cluster, given the per residue mutation rate within each functional element (e.g., protein-coding gene), (1.5) applying multiple hypothesis correction (MHC) across mutation density probabilities of discovered clusters, and (1.6) computing false-discovery rates (FDRs) for the observed (e.g., raw or corrected) mutation density probabilities using background models of mutation density probabilities derived by randomizing positions of the observed phenotype-associated variants within each functional element. [0114] Training/Validation Layer 1804 can further perform the SMR/SMN-selection techniques 1815. SMR/SMN-selection techniques can comprise the steps of (2.1) defining (e.g., raw or corrected) mutation density probabilities and/or false discovery rates (FDRs) as hotspot scores and applying cutoffs to statistically define hotspot classifications, thereby nominating residues in candidate clusters (e.g., sequence 1816, function 1818, and sequence 1820), (2.2) detecting residues in candidate clusters from multiple, distinct projections/spaces, (2.3) assigning residues to individual clusters applying an assignment heuristic (e.g., selecting the cluster largest in size (e.g., cluster with the highest number of residues), and (2.4) identifying SMRs/SMNs as the final set of clusters meeting these criteria. The final set of SMRs/SMNs can be derived from multiple, distinct projections (e.g., sequence 1820, function 1818, or sequence, function (combined) 1822). [0115] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for the identification of SMRs/SMNs by measuring and scoring the phenotype-associated mutation density (e.g., number of observed phenotype-associated variants per residue) within spatially-proximal residues of functional elements (e.g., protein-coding genes) through the application of spatial clustering techniques across a plurality of spatial distance metrics, where the phenotype-associated variants may be defined on the basis of the functional scores and functional classifications herein described. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, these methods may allow the determination of clusters of residues in which variants with specifically-defined phenotypic impacts occur. [0116] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for evaluating the accuracy, performance, or robustness of independent evidence datasets for the interpretation of molecular variants, such as quantitative (e.g., scores) or qualitative (classifications) evidence from computational predictors (e.g., M-CAP, REVEL, SIFT, and PolyPhen2), as well as gene-specific predictors (e.g., PON-P2), mutational hotspots, and population genomics metrics (e.g., allele frequency-based variant classifications), (Amendola et al. 2016) against the herein described functional scores and functional classifications. [0117] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for computing evaluation metrics to assess concordance between an evidence dataset and the herein described functional scores and functional classifications, and based on these evaluation metrics selecting the best-performing evidence dataset for use in variant interpretation and prioritization. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, various evaluation metrics can be used to assess the concordance of an evidence dataset against the herein described functional scores or functional classifications. For quantitative evidence (e.g., scores), these may include the Pearson's correlation coefficient, Spearman's rank-order correlation, Kendall correlation, and various others as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art. For qualitative evidence (e.g., classifications), these may include accuracy, Matthew's correlation coefficient, Cohen's kappa coefficient, Youden's index (e.g., informedness), F-measure (e.g., F1 score), true positive rate (e.g., sensitivity or recall), true negative rate (e.g., specificity), positive predictive value (e.g., precision), negative predictive value, positive likelihood ratio, negative likelihood ratio, and diagnostic odds ratio, and various others as would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art. [0118] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods that may continuously evaluate, validate, and optimize (e.g., select, remove, or modify) diverse evidence datasets on the basis of the above described evaluation metrics, and distribute the best-performing (e.g., independent) evidence datasets to client systems via an Application Program Interface (API) for use in variant interpretation and prioritization practices determining the phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record thereof of a subject. [0119] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining the degree of ascertainment bias, reporting bias, or outcome bias present within a dataset of variants, including clinical datasets (e.g., ClinVar, HumVar, VariBench, SwissVar, PhenCode, or locus-specific databases), population datasets (e.g., ExAC, GnomAD, and 1000 Genomes), or independent evidence datasets for the interpretation of molecular variants, such as but not limited to computational predictors (e.g., M-CAP, REVEL, SIFT, PolyPhen2, and PON-P2). In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining biases on the basis of the expected distributions of the herein described functional scores, functional classifications, and molecular signals associated with molecular variants and residues. [0120] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for the evaluation of a target variant dataset by measuring and scoring the difference between the distributions of functional scores, functional classifications, and molecular signals of molecular variants and residues within the target dataset against the expected distributions of functional scores, functional classifications, and molecular signals of molecular variants from a reference dataset. In some embodiments, the measurement of inherent biases within a target variant dataset may comprise a series of steps, including but not limited to: (1) collection of functional scores, functional classifications, and molecular signals associated with molecular variants in the target and reference datasets, (2) estimating the probability density function of functional scores, functional classifications, or molecular signals associated with molecular variants within the reference dataset, (3) estimating the probability density function of functional scores, functional classifications, or molecular signals associated with molecular variants within the target dataset, and (4) measuring the statistical distance between the target dataset derived probability density function and the reference dataset-derived probability density function of functional scores, functional classifications, or molecular signals. In some embodiments, the measurement of inherent biases within a target variant dataset comprises a series of steps, including: (5) sampling variants from the reference dataset (e.g., to match the sample population size of the target dataset), (6) estimating the probability density function of functional scores, functional classifications, or molecular signals of the sampled reference dataset in step 5, (7) measuring the statistical distance between the target dataset-derived probability density function and the sampled reference dataset-derived probability density function of functional scores, functional classifications, or molecular signals, (8) iterating steps 5-8 to obtain a robust estimate and confidence intervals of the statistical distance between the probability density function of functional scores, functional classifications, or molecular signals of the target and reference datasets. In some embodiments, the above systems and methods for the detection and statistical evaluation of bias permit the identification of clinical datasets, population datasets, or evidence datasets in which the contained variants have different functional scores, functional classifications, or molecular signals from that expected in a reference dataset. [0121] In some other embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for evaluating underlying biases within evidence datasets by a series of steps, including but not limited to: (1) partitioning evidence and reference datasets into matching sets of quantiles (e.g., for quantitative evidence scores) or classes (e.g., qualitative evidence classifications); (2) scoring variants within each set (e.g., evidence vs. reference) across a plurality of properties (e.g., evolutionary, population, functional (e.g., annotation-based), structural, dynamical, and physicochemical features associated with variants); (3) estimating the probability density function of each property score within each set (e.g., evidence vs. reference); (4) measuring the statistical distance between the evidence set derived probability density function and the reference set-derived probability density function of each property score; and (5) identifying properties with statistically significant differences in scores between reference and evidence sets. [0122] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods that may continuously evaluate and select diverse evidence datasets on the basis of the above described bias metrics, and distribute the least-biased (e.g., independent) evidence datasets to client systems via an Application Program Interface (API) for use in variant interpretation and prioritization practices determining the phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record thereof of a subject. [0123] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining the phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record of a subject on the basis of herein described functional scores, functional classifications, predictor scores, predictor classifications, hotspot scores, and hotspot classifications, in functional elements (e.g., genes) and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders (e.g., Table 1), that are known cancer-drivers (e.g., Table 2), pharmacogenomic genes in which genotypic (e.g., sequence) variation is associated with variation in drug response (Table 3), or other clinically-valuable genes (e.g., Table 4). [0124] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for evaluating, selecting, distributing and utilizing independent evidence -determined to be the best-performing and least biased on the basis of the herein described functional scores and classifications- for the interpretation and prioritization of variants in functional elements (e.g., genes) and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders (e.g., Table 1), that are known cancer-drivers (e.g., Table 2), pharmacogenomic genes in which genotypic (e.g., sequence) variation is associated with variation in drug response (e.g., Table 3), or other clinically-valuable genes (e.g., Table 4). [0125] As discussed above, Table 1 is an example table of functional elements and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders, according to some embodiments. Table 2 is an example table of functional elements and pathways that are known cancer-drivers, according to some embodiments. Table 3 is an example table of pharmacogenomic genes in which genotypic (e.g., sequence) variation is associated with variation in drug response, according to some embodiments. Table 4 is an example table of other clinically-valuable genes, according to some embodiments. Tables 1-4 may be found on page 47 of the specification. [0126] In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining the phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record of a subject on the basis of herein described and enabled functional scores, functional classifications, predictor scores, predictor classifications of variants within known targets of pathogenic variation, including (but not limited) to mutational hotspots, or for variants within, for example, 50, 100, 500, and 1,000 base pair (bp) of such hotspots. In some embodiments, the present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining the phenotypic impact (e.g., pathogenicity, functionality, or relative effect) of molecular variants identified within a biological sample or record of a subject on the basis of functional scores, functional classifications, predictor scores, or predictor classifications of variants within regions of constrained variation in a population, or for variants within, for example, 50, 100, 500, and 1,000 bp of such regions. As would be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, a variety of methods for determining mutational hotspots and regions of constrained variation can be applied. [0127] Various embodiments can be implemented, for example, using one or more computer systems, such as computer system 1900 shown in FIG. 19. Computer system 1900 can be used, for example, to implement methods of FIGS 1A, 6-13, and 15-18. Computer system 1900 can be any computer capable of performing the functions described herein. [0128] Computer system 1900 can be any well-known computer capable of performing the functions described herein. [0129] Computer system 1900 includes one or more processors (also called central processing units, or CPUs), such as a processor 1904. Processor 1904 is connected to a communication infrastructure or bus 1906. [0130] One or more processors 1904 may each be a graphics processing unit (GPU). In an embodiment, a GPU is a processor that is a specialized electronic circuit designed to process mathematically intensive applications. The GPU may have a parallel structure that is efficient for parallel processing of large blocks of data, such as mathematically intensive data common to computer graphics applications, images, videos, etc. [0131] Computer system 1900 also includes user input/output device(s) 1903, such as monitors, keyboards, pointing devices, etc., that communicate with communication infrastructure 1906 through user input/output interface(s) 1902. [0132] Computer system 1900 also includes a main or primary memory 1908, such as random access memory (RAM). Main memory 1908 may include one or more levels of cache. Main memory 1908 has stored therein control logic (e.g., computer software) and/or data. [0133] Computer system 1900 may also include one or more secondary storage devices or memory 1910. Secondary memory 1910 may include, for example, a local, network, or cloud-accessible hard disk drive 1912 and/or a removable storage device or drive 1914. Removable storage drive 1914 may be a floppy disk drive, a magnetic tape drive, a compact disk drive, an optical storage device, tape backup device, and/or any other storage device/drive. [0134] Removable storage drive 1914 may interact with a removable storage unit 1918. Removable storage unit 1918 includes a computer usable or readable storage device having stored thereon computer software (control logic) and/or data. Removable storage unit 1918 may be a floppy disk, magnetic tape, compact disk, DVD, optical storage disk, and/ any other computer data storage device. Removable storage drive 1914 reads from and/or writes to removable storage unit 1918 in a well-known manner. [0135] According to an exemplary embodiment, secondary memory 1910 may include other means, instrumentalities or other approaches for allowing computer programs and/or other instructions and/or data to be accessed by computer system 1900. Such means, instrumentalities or other approaches may include, for example, a removable storage unit 1922 and an interface 1920. Examples of the removable storage unit 1922 and the interface 1920 may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface (such as that found in video game devices), a removable memory chip (such as an EPROM or PROM) and associated socket, a memory stick and USB port, a memory card and associated memory card slot, and/or any other removable storage unit and associated interface. [0136] Computer system 1900 may further include a communication or network interface 1924. Communication interface 1924 enables computer system 1900 to communicate and interact with any combination of remote devices, remote networks, remote entities, etc. (individually and collectively referenced by reference number 1928). For example, communication interface 1924 may allow computer system 1900 to communicate with remote devices 1928 over communications path 1926, which may be wired and/or wireless, and which may include any combination of LANs, WANs, the Internet, etc. Control logic and/or data may be transmitted to and from computer system 1900 via communication path 1926. [0137] In an embodiment, a tangible apparatus or article of manufacture comprising a tangible computer useable or readable medium having control logic (software) stored thereon is also referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes, but is not limited to, computer system 1900, main memory 1908, secondary memory 1910, and removable storage units 1918 and 1922, as well as tangible articles of manufacture embodying any combination of the foregoing. Such control logic, when executed by one or more data processing devices (such as computer system 1900), causes such data processing devices to operate as described herein. [0138] Based on the teachings contained in this disclosure, it will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art(s) how to make and use embodiments of this disclosure using data processing devices, computer systems and/or computer architectures other than that shown in FIG. 12. In particular, embodiments can operate with software, hardware, and/or operating system implementations other than those described herein. [0139] It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section, and not any other section, is intended to be used to interpret the claims. Other sections can set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments as contemplated by the inventor(s), and thus, are not intended to limit this disclosure or the appended claims in any way. [0140] While this disclosure describes exemplary embodiments for exemplary fields and applications, it should be understood that the disclosure is not limited thereto. Other embodiments and modifications thereto are possible, and are within the scope and spirit of this disclosure. For example, and without limiting the generality of this paragraph, embodiments are not limited to the software, hardware, firmware, and/or entities illustrated in the figures and/or described herein. Further, embodiments (whether or not explicitly described herein) have significant utility to fields and applications beyond the examples described herein. [01411 Embodiments have been described herein with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the implementation of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined as long as the specified functions and relationships (or equivalents thereof) are appropriately performed. Also, alternative embodiments can perform functional blocks, steps, operations, methods, etc. using orderings different than those described herein. [0142] References herein to 'one embodiment,' 'an embodiment,' 'an example embodiment,' or similar phrases, indicate that the embodiment described can include a particular feature, structure, or characteristic, but every embodiment can not necessarily include the particular feature, structure, or characteristic. Moreover, such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further, when a particular feature, structure, or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment, it would be within the knowledge of persons skilled in the relevant art(s) to incorporate such feature, structure, or characteristic into other embodiments whether or not explicitly mentioned or described herein. Additionally, some embodiments can be described using the expression 'coupled' and 'connected' along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example, some embodiments can be described using the terms 'connected' and/or 'coupled' to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term 'coupled,' however, can also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other, but yet still co-operate or interact with each other. [01431 The breadth and scope of this disclosure should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents. [0144] Other embodiments as described herein are defined in the following paragraphs: 1. A computer implemented method for determining phenotypic impacts of molecular variants identified within a biological sample, comprising: -46a receiving molecular variants associated with one or more functional elements within a model system, wherein the model system comprises single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments; determining molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments; determining molecular signals or phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants based on the respective molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring specific molecular variants; determining population signals associated with the molecular variants based on the molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring specific molecular variants; determining functional scores or functional classifications for the molecular variants based on statistical learning, wherein the statistical learning associates the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals of molecular variants with phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants; deriving evidence scores or evidence classifications of the molecular variants based on the functional scores or functional classifications, a modeling of the functional scores or functional classifications, a modeling of predictor scores or predictor classifications, or a modeling of hotspot scores or hotspot classifications; and determining the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants based on the functional scores, the functional classifications, the evidence scores, or the evidence classifications. 2. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the evidence scores or the evidence classifications are determined based on the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals from the molecular variants in one or more functional elements. 3. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the evidence scores or evidence classifications are derived from the functional scores or functional classifications, the predictor scores or predictor classifications, or the hotspots scores or hotspot classifications. -46b 4. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the evidence scores or evidence classifications are derived by applying the statistical learning using regression or classification to associate evidence scores and evidence classifications to phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants. 5. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the functional scores or functional classifications of the molecular variants are derived by applying statistical learning using regression or classification to associate molecular signals to phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants. 6. The method of paragraph 4, wherein the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants are derived based on clinical databases, phenotype databases, population databases, molecular annotation databases, or functional databases of variants, subjects or populations. 7. The method of paragraph 4, wherein the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants are derived based on molecular signals such as mutation burden, mutation rate, and mutation signatures. 8. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the functional scores or functional classifications of the molecular variants are derived from a plurality of statistical models generated using independent or disjoint estimates of the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals. 9. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the functional scores or functional classifications of the molecular variants are derived from a Functional Modeling Engine (FME), wherein the FME is generated by applying machine learning techniques to associate non-assayed features of the molecular variants to the functional scores or functional classifications, and wherein the non-assayed features include evolutionary, population, functional, structural, dynamical, and physicochemical features. -46c 10. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the predictor scores or predictor classifications of the molecular variants are derived from a Variant Interpretation Engine (VIE), wherein the VIE is generated by applying machine learning techniques to associate the functional scores or functional classifications and non-assayed features with the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants. 11. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the predictor scores or predictor classifications are derived from lower-order Variant Interpretation Engines (VIEs), wherein the lower-order VIEs are functional element, functional type, or condition-specific. 12. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the predictor scores or predictor classifications are derived from higher-order Variant Interpretation Engines (VIEs), wherein the higher order VIEs are pathway-, homolog family, enzyme family, or condition-specific. 13. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the predictor scores or predictor classifications are derived from higher-order Variant Interpretation Engines (VIEs), wherein the VIEs inform on multiple pathways-, homolog families, enzyme families, or conditions. 14. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the hotspot scores or hotspot classifications of the molecular variants are derived from Significantly Mutated Regions and Networks (SMRs/SMNs) computed applying spatial clustering techniques to detect regions and networks of residues with high densities of molecular variants with high or low functional scores, or specific functional classifications. 15. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals comprise lower-order molecular signals of the molecular variants that are derived as summary statistics, summary statistics, descriptive statistics, inferential statistics, or Bayesian inference models of the molecular scores measured in the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring the molecular variants. -46d 16. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals comprise higher-order molecular signals of the molecular variants that are derived by applying pre-existing models that associate lower-order molecular signals to regulatory, signaling, pathway, processing, cell-cycle activities, alterations, defects, or states. 17. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals comprise higher-order molecular signals of the molecular variants that are derived via unsupervised learning, feature learning, or dimensionality reduction techniques from lower-order molecular signals. 18. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals comprise lower-order molecular scores corresponding to molecular measurements, molecular processes, molecular features from the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. 19. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals comprise higher-order molecular scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments that are derived by applying pre-existing models that associate lower-order molecular scores to regulatory, signaling, pathway, processing, cell-cycle activities, alterations, defects, or states. 20. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals comprise higher-order molecular scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments that are derived via unsupervised learning, feature learning, or dimensionality reduction techniques from lower-order molecular scores. 21. The method of paragraph 20, wherein an Autoencoder neural network is trained to learn compressed representations of lower-order molecular scores, and the Autoencoder is utilized to encode lower-order molecular signals into higher-order compressed representations. -46e 22. The method of paragraph 21, wherein the Autoencoder is trained as a Denoising Autoencoder (DAE), or the Autoencoder is constructed as a neural network with fully connected layers, or the Autoencoder is constructed as a neural network with symmetric numbers of neurons, or the Autoencoder is built with a rectified linear-units (ReLu) for activation, or the Autoencoder is trained using an Adam optimizer or the Autoencoder is celltype-, gene-, pathway-, or disorder-specific. 23. The method of paragraph 18, wherein the molecular measurements correspond to locus specific measurements of gene expression, protein expression, chromatin accessibility, epigenetic modification, regulatory activity, post-transcriptional processing, post translational modification, mutation status, mutation burden, or mutation rate of molecules within the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. 24. The method of paragraph 18, wherein the molecular processes correspond to multi-locus measurements of gene expression, protein expression, chromatin accessibility, epigenetic modification, regulatory activity, transcriptional activity, translational activity, signaling activity, pathway activity, mutation status, mutation burden, or mutation rate, among others, derived from molecular measurements within the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments. 25. The method of paragraph 18, wherein the molecular features correspond to global measurements of gene expression, protein expression, chromatin accessibility, epigenetic modification, regulatory activity, transcriptional activity, translational activity, signaling activity, pathway activity, mutation status, mutation burden, or mutation rate, among others, derived from molecular measurements or molecular processes within the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. 26. The method of paragraph 18, wherein the molecular measurements are derived by applying single-cell barcoding and nucleic acid sequencing techniques on populations of -46f the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. 27. The method of paragraph 18, wherein the molecular measurements may comprise: sequencing read quality control, cellular barcode identification or quality control, molecular barcode identification or quality control, sequencing read alignment to a reference genome, sequencing read alignment filtering or quality control, mapping filtered and quality-controlled sequencing reads to functional elements, mapping filtered and quality-controlled molecular barcodes to functional elements, and mapping filtered and quality-controlled sequencing reads or molecular barcodes for specific cellular barcodes to functional elements . 28. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals are molecular state-specific, derived from populations of the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments from a specific molecular state to permit learning in a state-specific learning layer. 29. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals are molecular state-agnostic, derived from populations of the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments from a plurality of molecular states to permit learning in a state-agnostic learning layer. 30. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals are molecular state-ordered, derived from populations of the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments from a plurality of molecular states to permit learning in a multi-state learning layer. 31. The method of paragraphs 1, wherein molecular states of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments are derived -46g by applying pre-existing models associating molecular scores or phenotype scores to the molecular states, wherein the models assign single-cells to phases of cell-cycle based on previously characterized gene-expression signatures. 32. The method of paragraph 1, wherein molecular states of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments are derived via unsupervised learning, feature learning, or dimensionality reduction techniques of molecular scores or phenotype scores across the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. 33. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals are computed from independent or disjoint populations of single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments selected from the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring a same molecular variant via random sampling. 34. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 35. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 36. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 37. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. -46h 38. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 39. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 40. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 41. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. 42. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 10 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 43. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 10 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 44. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 10 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 45. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 10 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. -46i 46. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 50 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 47. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 50 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 48. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 50 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 49. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 50 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. 50. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 100 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 51. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 100 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 52. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 100 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 53. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 100 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. -46j 54. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 500 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 55. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 500 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 56. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 500 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 57. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 500 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes . 58. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 1,000 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 59. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 1,000 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 60. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 1,000 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 61. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 1,000 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. -46k 62. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 63. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 64. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 65. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. 66. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 10 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 67. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 10 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 68. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 10 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 69. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 10 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. 70. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 50 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 71. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 50 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 72. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 50 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 73. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 50 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. 74. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 100 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 75. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 100 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 76. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 100 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 77. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 100 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. -46m 78. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 500 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 79. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 500 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-drivers. 80. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 500 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 81. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 500 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. 82. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 1,000 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders. 83. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 1,000 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with known cancer-driver. 84. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 1,000 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with variation in drug response. 85. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non coding variants within 1,000 bp of previously identified constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with other clinically-valuable genes. -46n 86. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments represent phenotypic associations of the molecular variants identified within the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. 87. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments comprise lower-order phenotype scores, wherein the lower-order phenotype scores correspond to scores or classifications generated by a phenotype model through the use of statistical learning techniques that associate molecular scores and molecular states of model systems with the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants within each model system. 88. The method of paragraph 87, wherein the phenotype model is generated using a neural network architecture for single-task or multi-task statistical learning that associates molecular scores from one or more functional elements with one or more phenotypic impacts of molecular variants in the one or more functional elements. 89. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments comprise higher-order phenotype scores, wherein the higher-order phenotype scores are derived by applying pre-existing models that associate lower-order phenotype scores to regulatory, signaling, pathway, processing, cell-cycle activities, alterations, defects, or states. 90. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments comprise higher-order phenotype scores, wherein the higher-order phenotype scores are derived via unsupervised learning, feature learning, or dimensionality reduction techniques from lower-order phenotype scores. 91. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants comprise lower-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants, wherein the lower-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants are -46o derived as summary statistics, descriptive statistics, inferential statistics, Bayesian inference models of the phenotype scores measured in the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring the molecular variants. 92. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants comprise higher-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants, wherein the higher-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants are derived by applying pre-existing models that associate lower-order phenotype signals to regulatory, signaling, pathway, processing, cell-cycle activities, alterations, defects, or states. 93. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants comprises higher-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants, wherein the higher-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants are derived via unsupervised learning, feature learning, or dimensionality reduction techniques from lower-order phenotype signals. 94. The method of paragraph 1, further comprising: accessing a collection of molecular variants with putative or known phenotypic impacts from pre-existing sources; increasing the collection of molecular variants with putative or known phenotypic impacts using a prediction model; selecting a first set of genotypes with putative or known phenotypic impacts using a sampling model; selecting a second set of genotypes with unknown, putative, or known phenotypic impacts using a sampling model; selecting a third set of genotypes with unknown, putative, or known phenotypic impacts using a sampling model; generating a functional model by applying statistical learning techniques that associates molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals of the first set of genotypes with putative or known phenotypic impacts; -46p generating predicted phenotypic impacts for the second set of genotypes by applying the functional model to make predictions based on molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals of the second set of genotypes; generating an inference model by applying statistical learning techniques, wherein the inference model associates non-assayed features with phenotypic impacts of molecular variants; and generating predicted phenotypic impacts of the third set of genotypes by applying the inference model to make predictions based on non-assayed features of the third set of genotypes. 95. The method of paragraph 94, wherein the prediction model is gene-specific, domain specific, homolog-specific, or a genome-wide computational predictor or functional assay. 96. The method of paragraph 94, wherein the prediction model provides performance or confidence estimates for each prediction of the prediction model. 97. The method of paragraph 94, wherein a positive predictive value (PPV) of the prediction model comprises a function of a performance or confidence estimate of a prediction of the prediction model. 98. The method of paragraph 94, wherein a negative predictive value (NPV) of the prediction model comprises a function of a performance or confidence estimate of a prediction of the prediction model. 99. The method of paragraph 94, wherein the prediction model is a molecular impact predictor. 100. The method of paragraph 94, wherein the prediction model predicts early termination, non-sense, or truncating molecular variants in protein-coding functional elements are loss-of-function variants. -46q 101. The method of paragraph 94, wherein the prediction model predicts synonymous or silent molecular variants in protein-coding functional elements are neutral variants. 102. The method of paragraph 1, further comprising: generating a functional model by applying statistical learning techniques that combine the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals and the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants of the functional elements. 103. The method of paragraph 102, wherein the generating the functional model further comprises: generating the functional model using a neural network architecture for single-task or multi-task learning that associates the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals from the functional elements with the one or more phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants of the functional elements. 104. The method of paragraph 1, further comprising: generating a phenotype model by applying statistical learning techniques that combine the molecular scores and the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants of the functional elements. 105. The method of paragraph 104, wherein the generating the phenotype model further comprises: generating a phenotype model using a neural network architecture for single-task or multi-task learning that associates the molecular scores from the functional elements with the one or more phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants of the functional elements. 106. The method of paragraph 1, further comprising: introducing the molecular variants into the functional elements within the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments; -46r identifying the molecular variants within the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments; determining the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants within the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments; and determining molecular measurements, molecular features, or molecular processes within the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments. 107. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the population signals associated with the molecular variants describe a distribution of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments associated with the molecular variants across subpopulations of single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments from distinct molecular states. 108. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the population signals associated with molecular variants describe dynamics of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments associated with the molecular variants across subpopulations of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments from distinct molecular states. 109. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the population signals associated with the molecular variants describe changes to a distribution of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments across subpopulations of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments from distinct molecular states that are associated with the molecular variants. 110. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the population signals associated with the molecular variants describe changes to dynamics of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments across subpopulations of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic -46s compartments from distinct molecular states that are associated with the molecular variants. 111. The methods of paragraphs 107, wherein clustering techniques are applied to cluster and assign the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments based on the molecular scores or the phenotype scores. 112. The method of paragraph 111, wherein Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs) are applied to cluster and assign the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments to a defined number of molecular states. 113. The method of paragraph 111, wherein Variational Gaussian Mixture Models (VGMMs) are applied to cluster and assign the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments to an inferred number of molecular states using Dirichlet processes. 114. The method of paragraph 107, wherein the population signals associated with the molecular variants are determined as a fraction of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments associated with the molecular variants corresponding to specific molecular states. 115. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular scores or the phenotype scores of the molecular variants comprise adjusted molecular scores or phenotype scores computed as a difference between the molecular scores or the phenotype scores of the molecular variants and the molecular scores or the phenotype scores of reference molecular variants or reference single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments. 116. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular scores or the phenotype scores of the molecular variants comprise adjusted molecular scores or phenotype scores computed by normalizing the molecular scores or the phenotype scores of the molecular variants -46t against molecular scores or phenotype scores of reference molecular variants or reference single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments. 117. The method of paragraph 1, wherein molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals of molecular variants comprise adjusted molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals, respectively, computed as the difference between the molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals of molecular variants and the molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals of reference molecular variants. 118. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals associated with the molecular variants comprise adjusted molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals, respectively, computed by normalizing the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals associated with the molecular variants by molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals of reference molecular variants. 119. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals associated with the molecular variants comprise adjusted molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals, respectively, computed as quantiles of the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals associated with the molecular variants among molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals of reference molecular variants. 120. A computer implemented method, further comprising: selecting a first set of genotypes with phenotypic impacts; selecting a second set of genotypes with phenotypic impacts; applying single-cell capture or barcoding techniques to obtain molecules from a first cell number of single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments associated with the first set of genotypes; obtaining a first read number of molecular reads per model system by performing sequencing, sequencing read quality control, cellular barcode identification or quality -46u control, molecular barcode identification or quality control, sequencing read alignment to a reference genome, or read alignment filtering or quality control using a model system associated with the first set of genotypes; applying single-cell capture or barcoding techniques to obtain molecules from a second cell number of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments associated with the first set of genotypes; obtaining a second read number of molecular reads per model by performing sequencing, sequencing read quality control, cellular barcode identification or quality control, molecular barcode identification or quality control, sequencing read alignment to a reference genome, or read alignment filtering or quality control using the model system associated with the first set of genotypes; deriving total molecular reads or total molecular measurements from a total read number of molecular reads per model system from a total cell number of single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments per genotype; generating a total dimensionality reduction model by applying statistical learning techniques for feature selection or dimensionality reduction to determine molecular scores, phenotype scores, molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals for the first set of genotypes utilizing the total molecular reads and the total molecular measurements; generating a total functional model by applying statistical learning techniques that associate molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals from the total dimensionality reduction model with phenotypic impacts for the first set of genotypes utilizing the total molecular reads and the total molecular measurements; determining a threshold performance of functional scores or functional classifications using the total cell number, the total read number, the total dimensionality reduction model, or the total functional model for prediction of the phenotypic impacts of the first set of genotypes; deriving optimal molecular reads or optimal molecular measurements from an optimal read number of molecular reads per model system from an optimal cell number of single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments per genotype, where the optimal molecular reads and the optimal molecular -46v measurements are obtained by subsampling the total molecular reads or the total molecular measurements; generating an optimal dimensionality reduction model by applying statistical learning techniques for feature selection or dimensionality reduction to determine molecular scores, phenotype scores, molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals for the first set of genotypes using the optimal molecular reads and the optimal molecular measurements; generating an optimal functional model by applying statistical learning techniques that associate molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals from the optimal dimensionality reduction model with phenotypic impacts for the first set of genotypes using the optimal molecular reads and the optimal molecular measurements; validating the threshold performance of the functional scores or functional classifications based on the optimal cell number, the optimal read number, the optimal dimensionality reduction model, or the optimal functional model for prediction of the phenotypic impacts of the first set of genotypes; applying single-cell capture or barcoding techniques to obtain molecules from the optimal cell number of single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments associated with the second set of genotypes; obtaining the optimal read number of molecular reads per model system by performing sequencing, sequencing read quality control, cellular barcode identification or quality control, molecular barcode identification or quality control, sequencing read alignment to a reference genome, or read alignment filtering or quality control using a model system associated with the second set of genotypes; and generating functional scores or functional classifications for the second set of genotypes based on the optimal cell number, the optimal read number, the optimal dimensionality reduction model, or the optimal functional model. 121. A computer implemented method for scoring phenotypic impacts of molecular variants, comprising: evaluating an evidence dataset based on an accuracy of the evidence dataset; validating the evidence dataset based on the accuracy of the evidence dataset; optimizing the evidence dataset based on the accuracy of the evidence dataset; and -46w determining the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants based on the evaluating, validating, and optimizing of the evidence dataset. 122. The method of paragraph 121, wherein the evidence dataset comprises functional scores or functional classifications of molecular variants based on machine learning models associating molecular signals, phenotype signals, or population signals of the molecular variants with the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants. 123. The method of paragraph 121, wherein the evidence dataset comprises predictor scores or predictor classifications from genome-wide, homolog-specific, enzyme class-specific, domain-specific, or gene-specific computational predictors. 124. The method of paragraph 121, wherein the evidence dataset comprises hotspot scores or hotspot classifications from mutational hotspots. 125. The method of paragraph 121, wherein the evidence datasets comprises population scores or population classifications from variant classifications derived on a basis of population genomics metrics. 126. The method of paragraph 121, further comprising: computing evaluation metrics to assess concordance between the evidence dataset and functional scores or functional classifications. 127. The method of paragraph 121, wherein the evaluation metrics comprise a Pearson's correlation coefficient, a Spearman's rank-order correlation, a Kendall correlation, a Matthew's correlation coefficient, a Cohen's kappa coefficient, a Youden's index, a F measure, a true positive rate, a true negative rate, a positive predictive value, a negative predictive value, a positive likelihood ratio, a negative likelihood ratio, or a diagnostic odds ratio. -46x 128. The method of paragraph 121, wherein the validating of the evidence dataset comprises validating the evidence dataset based on the evaluation metrics. 129. The method of paragraph 121, wherein the optimizing of the evidence dataset comprises selecting or removing data within the evidence dataset based on the evaluation metrics. 130. A computer implemented method for scoring phenotypic impacts of molecular variants, comprising; evaluating an evidence dataset based on an inherent bias of the evidence dataset; validating the evidence dataset based on the inherent bias of the evidence dataset; optimizing the evidence dataset based on the inherent bias of the evidence dataset; and determining scores of the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants based on the evaluating, validating, and optimizing evidence dataset. 131. The method of paragraph 130, wherein a bias of the evidence dataset is measured as a statistical distance between an observed evidence score or evidence classification of variants in the evidence dataset against expected evidence scores or evidence classifications of variants in a reference dataset. 132. The method of paragraph 130, wherein an ascertainment bias of the evidence dataset is measured as a statistical distance between observed features and properties of variants in the evidence dataset against expected features and properties of variants in a reference dataset defined on a basis of a matching quantiles or classifications. 133. The method of paragraph 130, wherein an ascertainment bias of the evidence dataset is measured as a statistical distance between observed features and properties of the variants in the evidence dataset against expected features and properties of variants in a reference dataset defined on a basis of a matching distribution of evidence scores or evidence classifications. -46y 134. The method of paragraph 130, wherein the validating of the evidence dataset comprises validating the evidence dataset based on a target evaluation bias metric. 135. The method of paragraph 130, wherein the optimizing of the evidence dataset comprises selecting or removing data within the evidence dataset based on target validation criteria. 136. A system, comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to: receive molecular variants associated with one or more functional elements within a model system, wherein the model system comprises single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments; determine molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments; determine molecular signals or phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants based on the respective molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring specific molecular variants; determine population signals associated with the molecular variants based on the molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring specific molecular variants; determine functional scores or functional classifications for the molecular variants based on statistical learning, wherein the statistical learning associates the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals of molecular variants with phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants; derive evidence scores or evidence classifications of the molecular variants based on the functional scores or functional classifications, a modeling of the functional scores or functional classifications, a modeling of predictor scores or predictor classifications, or a modeling of hotspot scores or hotspot classifications; and -46z determine the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants based on the functional scores, the functional classifications, the evidence scores, or the evidence classifications. 137. A tangible computer-readable device having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one computing device, causes the at least one computing device to perform operations comprising: receive molecular variants associated with one or more functional elements within a model system, wherein the model system comprises single-cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments; determining molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments; determining molecular signals or phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants based on the respective molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring specific molecular variants; determining population signals associated with the molecular variants based on the molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single-cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring specific molecular variants; determining functional scores or functional classifications for the molecular variants based on statistical learning, wherein the statistical learning associates the molecular signals, the phenotype signals, or the population signals of molecular variants with phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants; deriving evidence scores or evidence classifications of the molecular variants based on the functional scores or functional classifications, a modeling of the functional scores or functional classifications, a modeling of predictor scores or predictor classifications, or a modeling of hotspot scores or hotspot classifications; and determining the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants based on the functional scores, the functional classifications, the evidence scores, or the evidence classifications. Table 1 Mendelian Disorders 1/2 Gene (HGNC Symbol) BRCA1 BRCA2 APOB LDLR PCSK9 SCN5A APC MLH1 MSH2 MSH6 STK11 MUTYI-I MYH7 LMNA MYBPC3 TNN13 TNNT2 KCNQ1 KCNH2 SDHB ACTA2 MYH11 VHL RET SDHAF2 SDHC SDHD TP53 TSC1 TSC2 NF2 PTEN RB1 RYR1 GLA RYR2 TGFBR1 TGFBR2 ACTC1 CACNA1S COL3A1 DSC2 DSG2 DSP FBN1 Table 1 Mendelian Disorders 2/2 Gene (HGNC Symbol) MEN1 MYL2 MYL3 PKP2 PMS2 PRKAG2 SMAD3 TMEM43 TPM1 WT1 BMPR1A SMAD4 ATP7B OTC Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 1/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) TP53 PIK3CA ARI1A RB1 PTEN KRAS BRAF CDKN2A NRAS FBXW7 STAG2 NFE2L2 NF1 IDHI ATM PIK3R1 CASP8 HRAS MLL2 SF3B1 ERBB2 CREBBP AKT1 HLA-A CTCF ERBB3 CTNNB1 RUNX1 MYD88 SMARCA4 EP300 SETD2 SMARCBI EGFR TBL1XR1 U2AF1 EZH2 RAC1 MLL3 IL7R CD79B POU2AF1 MAP2K1 PTPN11 CCND1 Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 2/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) MAP2K4 TCF7L2 KIT CDK4 FOXA1 TSC1 FAT1 VVT1 BCOR XPO1 PRDM1 KEAP1 NSD1 PPP2R1A CDKN1B ASXL1 MET RPL5 MYCN TNFRSF14 FLT3 ALK KDM5C KDM6A APC PBRMI1 STK11 RAD21 EZR SPOP TET2 PHF6 IRF4 DDX5 CCDC6 HIST1H3B CARD11 IDH2 MLL FGFR2 CDK12 ERCC2 B2M MED12 CEBPA NOTCH1 BRCA1 MAP3K1 VHL DNMT3A Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 3/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) FGFR3 NPM1 FAM46C CBFB GATA3 MYB CDH1 BAP1 ELF3 ZNF198 MALT1 WIF1 KDR SFRS3 MXRA5 SS18 TAL1 RXRA TCEA1 HEAB THRAP3 RUNDC2A SLC44A3 TNF TAL2 FLJ27352 LAF4 STK19 DDX10 MS12 NUTM2A POU5F1 TRIP11 STAT5B NCOA2 AZGP1 NCOA1 STAT3 NCOA4 OR52N1 CDKN2a(pl4) CEPI TFPT SUFU HOXA13 DDB2 HOXA11 P2RY8 ECT2L TRD@ Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 4/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) IGH@ SMAD4 RBM10 LASP1 ROS1 KMT2D WASF3 RBM15 PRKAR1A KCNJ5 ATRX EPHA2 BIRC3 HNRNPA2B1 OR4A16 NUTM2B KLF4 MAP2K2 C15orf2l ERG CD79A SRGAP3 MLLT3 MITF MN1 MLLT2 MLLT7 MLLT6 FAS C150rf55 POU2F2 EIF282 MLLT4 EPSI5 HERPUD1 TBC1D12 MLLT1 ALO17 CNOT3 FIP1LI CBL OLIG2 HOXC13 NT5C2 ABL1 ZNF521 PLAG1 TPM4 LMO1 LMO2 Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 5/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) BLM NTN4 SLC4A5 IRTA1 JAK3 PMS2 ATP1A1 TERT CDH11 PTCH DDX3X HEY1 MORC4 TLX3 PALB2 BCR BRCA2 MDM4 MDM2 BRD4 TFG CSF3R RPL10 PERI ITPKB PDSS2 CREB1 AF3p21 TRIM27 WRN KIF5B CHD8 RAB40A GATA1 ATIC CD1D SETBP1 CRTC3 TNFRSF17 COLIA1 DUX4 ACVR1B C16orf75 NIN ZNF278 MAF NF2 AKAP9 CCND2 MAX Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 6/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) MECT1 ARHGEF12 SEPT6 CBLB FACL6 ALKBH6 CHN1 CBFA2T1 IL6ST TCEB1 MEN1 FBX011 HISTIH41 RALGDS BUB1B FHIT CRLF2 RASA1 TLX1 IGK@ SELP TXNDC8 CACNA1D GUSB NUP214 NKX2-1 INPPL1 CBFA2T3 BCLAF1 TSC2 SDH5 CDC73 ZNF384 CDC27 OTUD7A SIL RANBP17 NDRG1 SMC3 FH PAX7 CD273 HLA-B PHOX2B CD274 GNAS GNAQ PSIPi ASPSCR1 GPHN Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 7/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) XIRP2 PAX8 MYOCD FRMD7 RAPIGDSI PAX3 AJUBA SLC34A2 HLF UBR5 REL RPS2 GNAI1 LHFP TBX3 SMO RET PAPD5 RPS15 SS18L1 MYH11 EIF4A2 LCK XPA HSPCA PPARG CHIC2 HOXC11 H3F3B JAK2 TFRC ZNF620 SOX17 MTCPI JUN LCTL TAF15 NONO SRSF2 CHCHD7 MAML2 PPM1D DAXX H3F3A JAK1 RIT1 CCND3 TRRAP MED23 IGL@ Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 8/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) SPEN DIAPH1 CMKOR1 ZNF471 STL POLE MAP4K3 ING1 FOXO1A LIFR CHEK2 LCP1 AKT2 TPR NFKB2 FOXL2 COL5A1 FEV HMGA1 BCL3 HMGA2 CARS PCSK7 ELL GMPS LYL1 BMPR1A TGFBR2 SLC45A3 GRAF HLXB9 HISTI1H1E DIS3 WVVTR1 PDGFRA PDE4DIP ARID53 ALDH2 STX2 SACS ARNT GOPC SOS1 ITK DICER1 KEL CIC RAB5EP FVT1 PML Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 9/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ADNP FANCA ABL2 C12orf9 BRIP1 MALATI FANCD2 PAFAHIB2 MUTYH POT1 JAZF1 GNPTAB FGFR10P RAD51LI DNER ZNF331 CD70 IKZF1 NCOR1 MLF1 MYH9 SYK HCMOGT-I FANCE FANCF FANCG TPM3 NUP210L INTS12 SDHC RUNXBP2 BTG1 TTLL9 EML4 SDHB CDK6 PMX1 PDGFRB FOXO3A NTRK1 CLTCL1 SH2B3 EBF1 GPC3 FGFR1 ETV6 NR4A3 SBDS PIMi ALPK2 Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 10/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PDGFB CUL4B YWHAE ETV1 BCL10 PBX1 IL21R CREB3L1 ATF1 FANCC C2orf44 HSPCB CANT1 PTPRC WAS NFIB CREB3L2 AF1Q NOTCH2 ABI1 SH3GL1 NBSI OMD SUZ12 TRA@ AF5q31 RSBN1L BCL11 B MSH6 ERCC5 BCL11A ERCC3 MSH2 NUMA1 KTN1 TFE3 IL2 MYCL1 LPP HOXA9 RPL22 MSN EVIl1 BCL7A AXIN1 NBPF1 ZNF9 MLH1 SFRS2 TRIM33 Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 11/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) SIRT4 AXIN2 CIlTA ARHGAP35 SET ELF4 HIP1 MSF SOX2 FNBP1 CD74 TCL1A RAF1 MADH4 COPEB FL11 CBLC GATA2 EXT1 EXT2 MICALCL DDIT3 D1OS170 CDKN2C MYC GOLGA5 TRIM23 NTRK3 KLK2 SLC1A3 PRF1 ACSL3 NUP98 ELK4 CYLD TMPRSS2 DDX6 CCNB1IP1 TTL ZNF750 TIF1 SOCS1 PNUTL1 FOXQ1 ATP2B3 PMS1 FSTL3 PCBP1 KDM5A ZNF145 Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 12/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PICALM EVVSR1 AF15Q14 BCL6 GNA13 BCL5 BCL9 ANK3 RHEB BHD QKI PPP6C CALR PRCC FCGR2B BCL2 RPN1 SSX4 MDS2 TPX2 RARA ZFHX3 TRB@ MDS1 MAFB SLC26A3 SGK1 SDHD CDX2 SSx1 ZRANB3 KIAA1549 SSX2 HOOK MTOR SNX25 TCF1 MGA LRIG3 PRDM16 ELKS RHOA ACO1 ELN VT1A BRD3 MLLT10 RNF43 CDKN1A ARID2 Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 13/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) LCX TFEB WHSC1L1 ETV5 ETV4 HOXDI1 GAS7 ARHH IP07 GOT1 SMAD2 WI-iSC1 TNFAIP3 TCL6 HOXD13 SDC4 PAX5 MPL MPO SFPQ TCF3 NACA RECQL4 SMIC1A ERCC4 TCF12 KLHL8 DNM2 CLTC S MARCEI DEK XPC USP6 FUBP1 PCM1 TRAF7 ZRSR2 FUS FOXP1 FLG TOPI MUCI TCP11L2 COX6C MYST4 MUC17 CAMTA1 C3orf70 CUX1 CAP2 Table 2 Cancer Drivers (CCG La) 14/14 Gene (HGNC Symbol) TRAF3 MKL1 CCNE1 TSHR AMER1 CCDC120 CHD4 TAP1 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 1/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) A2M ABAT ABCA1 ABCA12 ABCA3 ABCA8 ABCBi ABCB11 ABCB4 ABCB5 ABCB6 ABCB9 ABCC1 ABCC10 ABCC11 ABCC2 ABCC3 ABCC4 ABCC5 ABCC6 ABCC8 ABCC9 ABCD1 ABCD2 ABCG1 ABCG2 ABCG8 ABL1 ABO ACBD4 ACE ACE2 ACHE ACP5 ACSS2 ACTG1 ACY3 ACYP2 ADA ADAM12 ADAM33 ADAMTSI ADAMTS14 ADCK4 ADCY2 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 2/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ADCY9 ADD1 ADH1A ADH1B ADH1C ADH7 AD!POQ ADK ADM ADORA1 ADORA2A ADORA2A-AS1 ADRA1A ADRA2A ADRA2B ADRA2C ADRB1 ADRB2 ADRB3 ADRBK2 AFAP1L1 AGAP1 AGBL4 AGO1 AGT AGTR1 AGXT AHR AIDA AK4 AKR1C3 AKR1C4 AKR7A2 AKT1 AKT2 ALDH1A1 ALDH1A2 ALDH2 ALDH3A1 ALDH5A1 ALG10 ALOX12 ALOX15 ALOX5 ALOX5AP AMHR2 AMPD1 ANGPT2 ANGPTL4 ANKFN1 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 3/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ANKK1 ANKRD55 ANKS1B ANXA11 AOX1 APBB1 APEH APLF APOA1 APOA4 APOA5 APOB APOBEEC2 APOC1 APOC3 APOE APOH AQP2 AQP9 ARAP1 ARAP2 AREG ARG1 ARHGEFI0 ARHGEF4 ARID5B ARMS2 ARNT ARNTL ARRB2 ARVCF AS3MT ASIC2 ASPH ASS1 ATF3 ATG16L1 ATG5 ATIC ATM ATP2B1 ATP5E ATP7A ATP7B AXIN2 B4GALT2 BACH1 BAD BAG6 BAZ2B Table 3Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 4/128 Gene (HGNC Symbol) BCAP31 BCHE BCL2 BCL2L1 1 E30R E3DKRB1 BDKRB2 BDNF BDNF-AS BGLAP BLK BLMH BMJP5 BMJP7 BRAF BRD2 BTG4 BTRC C1 OrflO07 C1 Oorfil1 C1 1orf30 C1 1o1165 C12oiI4O C17orf51l C18orf21l 018orf56 Clcirf67 C2 020orfl 94 03 C5 C5orf22 C8orf34 C9orf72 CA1 0 CA1 2 CACNA1A CACNAIC CACNA]E CACNA]H CAONA1S CACNB2 CACNG2 CALU CAMKID CAMK2N1 CAMK4 CAP2 CAPG CAPN10 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 5/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) CAPZA1 CARD16 CARTPT CASP1 CASP3 CASP7 CASP9 CASR CAT CBR1 CBR3 CBS CCDC22 CCHCRI CCL2 CCL21 CCND1 CCNH CCNY CCR5 CD14 CD28 CD38 CD3EAP CD40 CD58 CD69 CD74 CD84 CDA CDC5L CDCA3 CDH13 CDH4 CDK1 CDK4 CDK9 CDKAL1 CDKN2B-AS1 CELF4 CELSR2 CEP68 CEP72 CERKL CERS6 CES1 CES1P1 CES2 CETP CFAP44 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 6/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) CFB CFH CFI CFLAR CFTR CHAT CHIA CHIC2 CHL1 CHRM2 CHRM3 CHRM4 CHRNA1 CHRNA3 CHRNA4 CHRNA5 CHRNA7 CHRNB1 CHRNB2 CHRNB3 CHRNB4 CHST13 CHST3 CHUK CLASP1 CLCN6 CLMN CLNK CLOCK CMPK1 CNKSR3 CNOT1 CNPY4 CNRI CNTF CNTN4 CNTN5 CNTNAP2 COLI8A1 COLIA1 COLIA2 COL22A1 COL26A1 COLEC10 COMT COQ2 CPA2 CPSI CR1 CR1L Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 7/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) CREB1 CRH CRHR1 CRHR2 CRP CRTC2 CRY1 CSK CSMD1 CSMD2 CSMD3 CSNK1E CSPG4 CSRNP3 CSRP3 CST5 CTH CTLA4 CTNNA2 CTNNA3 CTNNB1 CUX1 CUX2 CXCL10 CXCL12 CXCL5 CXCL8 CXCR2 CXCR4 CXXC4 CYB5A CYB5R3 CYBA CYCSP5 CYP11B2 CYP19A1 CYP1A1 CYP1A2 CYPIB1 CYP24A1 CYP27B1 CYP2A6 CYP2B6 CYP2B7P1 CYP2C18 CYP2C19 CYP2C8 CYP2C9 CYP2D6 CYP2E1 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 8/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) CYP2J2 CYP2R1 CYP39A1 CYP3A CYP3A4 CYP3A43 CYP3A5 CYP3A7 CYP4A11 CYP4B1 CYP4F11 CYP4F2 CYP51A1 CYP7A1 DAOA DAPK1 DBH DCAF4 DCBLD1 DCK DCP1B DCTD DDC DDHDI DDRGK1 DDX20 DDX53 DDX58 DEAF1 DGCR5 DGKH DGKI DHFR DHODH DIAPH3 DIO1 DI02 DKK1 DLEU7 DLG5 DLGAP1 DMPK DNAH12 DNAJB13 DNMT3A DOCK4 DOK5 DOT1L DPP4 DPYD Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 9/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) DPYS DRD1 DRD2 DRD3 DRD4 DROSHA DSCAM DTNBP1 DUSP1 DUX1 DYNC2H1 E2F7 EBF1 ECT2L EDN1 EGF EGFR EGLN3 EHF EIF2AK4 EIF3A EIF4E2 ENG ENOSF1 EPAS1 EPB41 EPHA5 EPHA6 EPHA8 EPHX1 EPM2A EPM2AIP1 EPO ERAP1 ERBB2 ERCC1 ERCC2 ERCC3 ERCC4 ERCC5 ERCC6L2 EREG ERICH3 ESR1 ESR2 ETS2 EXO1 F11 F12 F13A1 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 10/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) F2 F3 F5 F7 FAAH FABP1 FABP2 FADS1 FAM19A5 FAM65B FARS2 FAS FASLG FASTKD3 FAT1 FBXL17 FBXL19 FCAR FCER1A FCER1G FCER2 FCGR2A FCGR2B FCGR3A FDPS FEN1 FGD4 FGF2 FGF5 FGFBP1 FGFBP2 FGFR2 FGFR4 FHIT FKBP5 FLOT1 FLT1 FLT3 FLT4 FMO1 FMO2 FMO3 FM05 FNTB FOLH1 FOLR3 FOXC1 FOXP3 FPGS FSHR Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 11/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) FSIP1 FSTL5 FTO FYN FZD3 FZD4 G6PD GABRA1 GABRA3 GABRA6 GABRB1 GABRB2 GABRG2 GABRG3 GABRP GABRQ GAD2 GADL1 GAL GALNT14 GALNT18 GALNT2 GALR1 GAPDHP64 GAPVD1 GATA3 GATA4 GATM GBP6 GCG GCKR GCLC GDNF GEMIN4 GFRA2 GGCX GGH GHSR GIPR GJA1 GLCC1 GLDC GLP1R GLRB GNAS GNB3 GNMT GP1BA GP6 GPRI Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 12/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) GPR83 GPX1 GPX3 GPX5 GRIA1 GRIA3 GRID2 GRIK1 GRIK2 GRIK3 GRIK4 GRIN1 GRIN2A GRIN2B GRIN3A GRK4 GRK5 GRM3 GRM7 GSK3B GSR GSTA1 GSTA2 GSTA5 GSTMI GSTM3 GSTM4 GSTP1 GSTT1 GSTZ1 H19 HAS3 HCG22 HCP5 HDAC1 HES6 IFE HIF1A HLA-A HLA-B HLA-C HLA-DOB HLA-DPA1 HLA-DPB1 HLA-DPB2 HLA-DQA1 HLA-DQB1 HLA-DRA HLA-DRB1 HLA-DRB3 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 13/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) HLA-DRB5 HLA-E HLA-G HMGB1 HMGB2 HMGCR HNFIA HNFIB HNF4A HNMT HOMERS HOTAIR HOTTIP HRHI HRH2 HRH3 HRH4 HS3ST4 HSD11B1 I-ISD3B1 HSPA1A HSPA1L HSPA5 HSPG2 HTRIA HTR1B HTR1D HTR2A HTR2C HTR3A HTR3B HTR5A HTR6 HTR7 HTRA1 HUS1 HYKK IBA57 IDO1 IFIT1 IFNAR1 IFNBI IFNG IFNGR1 IFNGR2 IFNL3 IFNL4 IGF1 IGF1R IGF2BP2 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 14/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) IGF2R IGFBP3 IGFBP7 IKBKG IKZF3 IL1O IL11 IL12A IL12B IL13 IL16 IL17A IL17F IL17RA IL18 ILIA IL1B ILRN IL2 IL21R IL23R IL27 IL2RA IL2RB IL3 IL4 IL4R IL6 IL6R IL6ST IL7R ILKAP IMPA2 IMPDHI IMPDH2 INSIG2 INSR IP6K2 IRS1 ITGA ITGA2 ITGA9 ITGB1 ITGB3 ITGBL1 ITIH3 ITPA ITPKC JAK2 KANSL1 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 15/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) KCNE1 KCNH2 KCNH7 KCNIP1 KCNIP4 KCNJ1 KCNJ11 KCNJ6 KCNMA1 KCNMB1 KCNQ1 KCNQ5 KCNT1 KCNT2 KDM4A KDR KIAA0391 KIF6 KIR2DL2 KIRREL2 KIT KL KLC1 KLC3 KLRC1 KLRD1 KLRK1 KRAS KYNU LAMB3 LARPIB LCE3B LCE3C LDLR LECT2 LEP LEPR LGALS3 LGR5 LIG3 LINCO0251 LINC00478 LIPC LPA LPHN3 LPIN1 LPL LRP1 LRP1B LRP2 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 16/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) LRP5 LRRC15 LST1 LTA LTA4H LTB LTC4S LUC7L2 LYN LYRM5 MAD1L1 MAFB MAFK MALAT1 MAML3 MAN1B1 MAP3K1 MAP3K5 MAP4K4 MAPK1 MAPK14 MAPT March MC1R MC4R MCPH1 MDGA2 MDM2 MDM4 MECP2 MED12L MEG3 MET METTL21A MEX3C MGAT4A MGMT MIA3 MICA MICB MIR1206 MIR1307 MIR133B MIR146A MIR2053 MIR27A MIR300 MIR423 MIR4278 MIR449B Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 17/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) MIR492 MIR577 MIR595 MIR604 MIR611 MIR618 MIR7-2 MISP MLLT3 MLN MME MMP1 MMP10 MMP2 MMP3 MMP9 MOB3B MOCOS MOVi0 MPO MPZ MS4A2 MSH2 MSH3 MSH6 MT-RNR1 MTCL1 MTHFD1 MTHFR MTMR12 MTOR MTR MTRF1L MTRR MTTP MUC5B MUTYH MVK MYC MYLIP MYOCD N6AMT1 NALCN NANOGP6 NAT1 NAT2 NAV2 NBAS NBEA NCF4 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 18/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) NCOA1 NCOA3 NEDD4 NEDD4L NEFM NELFCD NELL1 NEUROD1 NFATC1 NFATC2 NFE2L2 NFKB1 NFKBIA NGF NGFR NLGNI NLRP3 NLRP8 NOD2 NOS1AP NOS2 NOS3 NPAS3 NPC1L1 NPHS1 NPPA NPPA-AS1 NQO1 NQO2 NR1D1 NR1H3 NR112 NR113 NR3C1 NR3C2 NRAS NRG1 NRG3 NRP1 NRP2 NRXN1 NT5C1A NT5C2 NT5C3A NT5E NTRK1 NTRK2 NUBPL NUDTI5 NUMA1 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 19/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) OAS1 OASL OCRL OPN1SW OPRDI OPRK1 OPRM1 OR10AE3P OR4D6 OR52E2 OR52J3 ORM1 ORM2 ORMDL3 OSMR OTOS OXT P2RY1 P2RY12 PACSIN2 PADI4 PAPD7 PAPLN PAPPA2 PARD3B PARP11 PAX4 PCK1 PCSK9 PDCD1ILG2 PDE4B PDE4C PDE4D PDGFRA PDGFRB PDLIM5 PDZRN3 PEAR1 PEMT PER2 PER3 PGLYRP4 PGR PHACTR1 PHB2 PHTF1 P14KA PICALM PICK PlGB Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 20/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PIK3CA PIK3R1 PITPNM2 PKLR PLA2G4A PLAGL1 PLCB1 PLCD3 PLCG1 PLEKHH2 PLEKHN1 PLG PLXNB3 PMCH POLA2 POLG POLR3G POMT2 PON1 PON2 POR POU2F1 POU2F2 POU5F1 PPARA PPARD PPARG PPARGC1A PPFIA1 PPMIA PPP1R13L PPP1R1C PPP2R5E PRB2 PRCP PRDM1 PRDM16 PRDX4 PRIMPOL PRKAA1 PRKAA2 PRKCA PRKCB PRKCE PRKCQ PRKG1 PROC PROCR PROMI PROSI Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 21/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PROX1 PRRC2A PRSS53 PSMA4 PSMB3P PSMB4 PSMB8 PSMD14 PSORS1C1 PSORS1C3 PSRC1 PTCHD1 PTEN PTGER2 PTGER3 PTGER4 PTGES PTGFR PTGIR PTGS1 PTGS2 PTH PTH1R PTPN22 PTPRC PTPRD PTPRM PTPRN2 PYGL RAB27A RABEPK RAC2 RAD18 RAD52 RAF1 RALBP1 RAPGEF5 RARG RARS RBFOX1 RBMS3 REEP5 REL REN REPS1 RET REV1 REV3L RFK RGSI7 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 22/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) RGS2 RGS4 RGS5 RHBDF2 RHOA RICTOR RND1 RNFT2 RORA RPL13 RRAS2 RRM1 RRM2 RRM2B RSBN1 RSRP1 RUNX1 RXRA RYR1 RYR2 RYR3 SACMIL SCAP SCARB1 SCGB3A1 SCN10A SCN1A SCN2A SCN4A SCN5A SCN8A SCN9A SCNNIB SCNNIG SELE SELP SEMA3C SERPINA3 SERPINA6 SERPINE1 SERPINF1 SERPING1 SETD4 SFRP5 SH2B3 SH2D5 SH3BP2 SHMT1 SIK3 SIN3A Table 3Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 25/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) SKIV2L SKOR2 SLC1OA2 SLC12A3 SLC12A8 SLC14A2 SLC15A1 SLC15A2 SLOW6A SLC16A7 SLC17A3 SLC18A2 SLC19A1 SLClA1 SLC1A2 SLC1A3 SLC1A4 SLC22AI SLC22AI1 SLC22AI2 SLC22AI6 SLC22A1'7 SLC22A2 SLC22A3 SLC22A4 SLC22A5 SLC22A6 SLC22A7 SLC22AB SLC24A4 SLC25AI3 SLC25AI4 SLC25A27 SLC25A31 SLC26A9 SLC28AI SLC28A2 SLC28A3 SLC29AI SLC2A1 SLC2A2 SLC2A9 SLC30A8 SLC30A9 SLC31A1 SLC37A1 SLC39A14 SLC47AI SLC47A2 SLC5A2 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 24/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) SLC5A7 SLC6A12 SLC6A2 SLC6A3 SLC6A4 SLC6A5 SLC6A9 SLC7A5 SLC7A8 SLCO1A2 SLCO1B1 SLCO1 B3 SLCOI1C1 SLCO2B 1 SLCO3A1 SLCO4C1 SLCO6A1 SLIT1 SMARCAD1 SMYD3 SNAP25 SNORA59B SNORD68 SOCS3 SOD2 SOD3 SORT SOX10 SPi SPARC SPATS2L SPECCIL SPG7 SPDR SPINK5 SPP1 SPTA1 SQSTM1 SREBF1 SREBF2 SRP19 SRR ST13 STAT3 STAT4 STAT6 STIM1 STIPI STK39 STMNI Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 25/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) STMN2 STX1B STX4 SUGCT SULT1A1 SULT1A2 SULT1C4 SULT1E1 SULT2B1 SV2C SYN3 SYNE3 SZRD1 T TAAR6 TAC1 TAGAP TANC1 TANC2 TAP1 TAP2 TAPBP TAS2R16 TBC1D1 TBC1D32 TBX21 TBXA2R TBXAS1 TCF19 TCF7L2 TCL1A TDP1 TDRD6 TERT TET2 TF TGFB1 TGFBR2 TGFBR3 TH THBD THRA THRB TIGD1 TK1 TLR2 TLR3 TLR4 TLR5 TLR7 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 26/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) TLR9 TMCC1 TMCO6 TMEFF2 TMEM205 TMEM258 TMEM57 TMPRSS11E TNF TNFAIP3 TNFRSF1OA TNFRSF11A TNFRSF11B TNFRSF1A TNFRSF1B TNFSFI0 TNFSFI1 TNFSF13B TNRC6A TNRC6B TOLLIP TOMM40 TOMM40L TOPI TOP2B TP53 TPH1 TPH2 TPMT TRAFI TRAF3P2 TRIB3 TRIM5 TRPM6 TSC1 TSPAN5 TTC6 TUBB1 TUBB2A TXNRD2 TYMP TYMS UBASH3B UBE21 UCP2 UCP3 UGGT2 UGT1A UGT1A1 UGT1A10 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 27/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) UGT1A3 UGT1A4 UGT1A5 UGT1A6 UGT1A7 UGT1A8 UGT1A9 UGT2B10 UGT2B15 UGT2B17 UGT2B4 UGT2B7 ULK3 UMPS UPB1 USH2A USP24 USP5 UST VAC14 VASP VDR VEGFA VKORC1 WBP2NL WBSCR17 WDR7 WIF1 WNK1 WNT5B WT1 WWOX XBP1 XDH XPA XPC XPO1 XP05 XRCC1 XRCC3 XRCC4 XRCC5 YAP1 YBX1 YEATS4 ZBTB22 ZBTB4 ZCCHC6 ZFP91-CNTF ZMAT4 Table 3 Pharmacogenomics (Pharm) 28/28 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ZNF100 ZNF215 ZNF423 ZNF432 ZNF652 ZNF697 ZNF804A ZNF816 ZNRD1-AS1 ZSCAN25 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 1/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) LMNA PTEN TP53 BRCA2 MLH1 MSH2 BRCA1 MSH6 FGFR3 MECP2 CFTR RET PTPN1I SCN5A MYH7 CAV3 PMS2 KRAS APC ATM ARX DMD DES STK11 POLG NF1 BRAF TSC1 CDKL5 TSC2 TTN COL2A1 FMRI FKTN KCNQ1 VHL SLC2A1 FBN1 EPCAM HRAS PALB2 RAF1 TNNT2 CEP290 SMAD4 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 2/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) MUTYH SCN1A SCN1B KCNJ2 RYR2 GLA CDH1 NRAS FKRP KCNH2 LDB3 CACNA1A MYBPC3 FGFR2 UBE3A CACNA1C GJB2 TAZ SDHB TNNI3 ACTC1 GAA TCAP CHEK2 LAMP2 COL1A1 TTR DSP HBB SDHD SOS1 NBN COL1A2 TGFBR2 POMT1 TPM1 FLNA KCNE1 PCDH19 MAP2K1 CHD7 FOXG1 SDHC TGFBR1 RYR1 MTHFR SGCD CDKN2A PMP22 POMT2 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 3/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) FH VVT1 EMD SCN4A FGFR1 PLP1 PAX6 P0MGNT1 TMEM43 MEN1 PKP2 SLC9A6 RHO F5 GCK BRIP1 TRIM32 DSG2 RAD51C TRPV4 SCN2A CPT2 KCNE2 GJB6 COL3A1 MAP2K2 NPHP1 DNM2 BMPRIA PRKAG2 ACADM OFD1 MYOT CASQ2 HEXA DSC2 MEF2C IFE CLN3 PTCHi CRYAB JUP PLN MED12 ZEB2 FHL1 ABCC8 F2 ACADVL BAG3 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 4/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ATP7A CASR SCN9A BSCL2 PDHA1 SHOC2 ETFDH KCNQ2 HADHA TNNC1 PRRT2 TPP1 ANO5 COL5A1 ETFB MPZ ETFA ACTA1 PPT1 CASK STXBP1 ABCD1 KCNJ11 ATRX GNAS ABCA4 DYSF ABCC9 TCF4 BLM SLC22A5 SDHA MYH6 HCN4 ATP7B PLA2G6 FANCC MYL2 CBS ANK2 KCNE3 MYL3 CLN5 DCX PANK2 ALDH7A1 NKX2-5 GBA TIMM8A PNKP Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 5/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ACTA2 WFS1 MFN2 FOLR1 JAG1 SMN1 SMARCB1 L1CAM GPC3 KIT NSD1 OPA1 DHCR7 NF2 SGCA MITF CLRN1 TPM2 SPRED1 MKS1 NIPBL AGL OTC RB1 CSRP3 GLB1 TMEM67 CLN6 HNF1B SMC1A SCN4B CACNB2 ACVRL1 DLD CBL FXN ARSA PSEN1 COL6A3 LAMA2 SMAD3 ENG PRPS1 ACTN2 TWNK CAPN3 GDAP1 COL5A2 EYA1 PCDH15 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 6/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) GCH1 SURF SGCB SCN3B TMEM216 PITX2 COL6A1 PEX1 MYH11 VCL NOTCH3 LARGE SLC26A4 CLN8 BTD GAMT USH2A MYH9 AR NPC1 TERT GABRG2 GCDH HNFIA FLNC IDS COL6A2 BBS1 RPGR FLCN GNE RPGRIPIL MEFV CALM CDKN1C MFSD8 PRPH2 SMPD1 OPHNI CNTNAP2 BCKDHB PLODI PLEC CREBBP SDHAF2 ARHGEF9 AKAP9 RAD51D NEB OPA3 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 7/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) MBD5 NPC2 MYO7A CTSD VPS13B GALC KCNJ5 PAFAH1B1 PYGM GRN ASPA CDK4 PEX7 MET FBN2 CC2D2A GARS NRXN1 PIK3CA COL11A2 I-ITT SLC26A2 SETX NEXN TGFB3 SELENON KCNJ10 CPT1A HPRT1 ELN UGT1A1 WAS OCRL KCND3 MUT VCP HADHB GPD1L KCNQ3 SUCLA2 SCO2 FTL EGR2 PMM2 ALPL SNTA1 BBS2 G6PC HADH PKD2 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 8/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PKHD1 COQ2 MMACHC GJB1 BEST SGCG BCKDHA LDLR NPHP3 SLC25A20 ACADS DYNC1H1 KCTD7 MAPT FIG4 TREX1 MMAB PQBP1 GRIN2A COL4A5 MMAA MKKS RPE65 GBE1 NDP HSD17B10 GATA1 APOB TTC8 SPG7 PDX1 GABRA1 APTX IKBKAP NEFL PEX6 COL11A1 TBC1D24 TGFB2 CRX APOE GUCY2D PHOX2B ISPD ATP1A2 ATP13A2 ATL1 SYNE1 ATXN2 SLC6A8 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 9/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ALMS1 HNF4A AH11 ACAD9 PRKAR1A SNRPN COL4A1 NOTCH SLC25A22 GLDC ADGRV1 GALT PEX26 TRDN PHF6 PNPO KCNT1 MTM1 COX15 SLC4A1 RRM2B PRSS1 TPM3 BBS10 BAP1 BCS1L CDH23 MRE11 PCCA TBX5 MPL PAH SPTAN1 SCN8A AMT ASS1 PSEN2 CACNA1S USH1C FANCA CYP21A2 FGD1 PEX12 SLC2A10 WDR62 FAH GLI3 RUNX1 ANKRD1 GNPTAB Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 10/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) SLC25A4 SERPINA1 RELN BARD1 RAPSN DKC1 CSTB SGCE F8 KCNJ8 MYPN MVK PEX10 REEP1 CRB1 CHRNA1 RBM20 PCCB BCOR NLRP3 HBA1 EPM2A SKI GATA2 MYLK FANCB TYR ABCB4 C12orf65 PEX2 LRP5 TTC2 1B SLC25A13 HSPB1 HSPB8 MPV17 SPAST SLC37A4 IQCB1 IDUA EYA4 KCNA1 PGK1 CYP1B1 WHRN SMARCA4 TERC ADSL DMPK ATXN1 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 11/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ATP6AP2 SYNGAP1 RDI-12 TARDBP KMT2D PRKN NPHP4 TK2 NHLRC1 GJA1 SUCLG1 GATA4 NDUFA1 COL4A3 ATXN3 VWF TH DBT KIF1A MMADHC MID1 PKD1 AP3B1 CHRNA4 DNAJB6 APP SHH FA2H CHRNB2 EDN3 SLC16A2 ELANE FUS INS RPS6KA3 INVS MYOZ2 TNNT1 ALK TMEM70 CACNB4 JAK2 CNGB3 SPINK1 AGXT PAX3 MCOLN1 PEX5 ASPM DGUOK Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 12/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) IGHMBP2 CFH SOD1 TUBA1A DOLK PROM1 SYNI HMGCL KDM5C RAB39B DNAJC5 AUH SHOX ATXN7 CENPJ SRPX2 SOX10 CYP2D6 DCTN1 TBX1 ALDOB ARL6 BBS12 COQ8A TWIST RECQL4 OTX2 PC DPAGT1 TP63 GP1BA ARGI POLD1 SACS AKT1 PEX3 SMC3 OCA2 CYP2C19 RMRP IL2RG DNAH5 SPG11 NDRG1 COL4A4 FOXC1 BMPR2 MCCC2 MAX F9 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 13/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ERCC6 C9orf72 TYMP RA11 AIPL1 MCCCI SLC25A19 COL9A1 BTK P3H1 PDSS2 PCNT NOTCH2 ATP8B1 ATP1A3 ETHE1 HEXB SLC25A15 CP COL9A2 CHRNA2 CHRNE CUL4B DOK7 CHRND GUSB SLC19A3 IVD SH3TC2 EFHC1 IMPDHI CRTAP CYP27A1 HSPD1 SOX2 SDCCAG8 CYP2C9 ALS2 RPS19 GOSR2 RARS2 GFAP PEX14 CYP11B1 GMPPB BBS4 SGSH GJC2 GLUDI GATM Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 14/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) TMEM127 RPGRIP1 PDGFRA LGI1 MT-ATP6 ADAMTS13 BBS5 WDR45 MTMR2 GATA6 BBS7 LITAF POLG2 ABCB11 PRX ALG2 ABCC6 RNASEH2B FANCG ADA SIL1 RP2 RASA1 NTRK1 TNFRSFIA SCNN1B CHAT USH1G FLNB DNA11 CFL2 OPTN NDUFS4 ARL13B BBS9 TOR1A LRPPRC ATPAF2 SAMHD1 TSEN54 NPHS2 TSFM HBA2 GALNS FKBP14 CHST14 FOXRED1 TRPM4 NHS RNASEH2A Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 15/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) RNASEH2C ADGRG1 MT-RNR1 AGK CEP152 ASL SNCA GRIN2B DTNA SIX1 CPS1 KIF7 AIFMI PDHX NAGLU MT-TL1 NSDHL HDAC8 HGSNAT LRRK2 SBF2 RAB7A SCNN1G LRAT DARS2 KIF5A RIT1 PCSK9 GFM1 PINK NPHS1 ARSB NDUFS7 POLE PFKM SCN2B IDH2 FBLN5 INPP5E PDSS1 GABRD ATP6VOA2 PRiCKLE1 ACAT1 SOX9 CACNA2D1 G6PD SPG20 SCARB2 NLGN3 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 16/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) ANOS1 NLGN4X GABRB3 HAX1 AFG3L2 GJB3 TINF2 KRIT1 GPR143 CDC73 EDNRB MLYCD AARS2 JAK3 SDHAF1 JPH2 NDUFV1 PEX13 PLCB1 ABHD12 PEX16 IRF6 SUMF1 BSND DAG1 HLCS ATR EGFR AFF2 EZH2 PEX19 ABCA3 PAK3 NDUFSI PHYH PRKCG TMPO TULP1 COMP MR MYLK2 HESX1 YARS BIN1 DPM3 LYST AARS SIX3 ACTGI C19orf12 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 17/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PDHB COQ9 MLC1 NODAL DPYD CHM DPM1 LIPA SFTPC DLAT VRK1 TUBB2B ATP6VlBl HSD17B4 CERKL EP300 SLC12A3 GATA3 FANCE FGD4 CFI SCN10A COLQ COX6B1 FKBP10 EXT1 ADAMTS2 SBDS CD46 TGIF1 SALL1 ERCC4 KIFIB SLC17A5 WNK1 KCNA5 ARFGEF2 FANCF ELOVL4 SALL4 CYP7B1 KARS GRIA3 ALDH5A1 SPR CLCN1 HCCS GNS EIF2AK3 PUS1 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 18/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PDE6B PLOD2 PAX2 DHDDS WDR19 ALG6 PPARG VAPB CHD2 RP1 PSAP WRN LMBRD1 INSR CEBPA LPIN1 SMS MT-TK PARK7 SUFU UMOD PRNP AGA RAD50 FUCA1 SLC39A13 NDUFA2 ISCU MT-TS1 SEMA4A FOXP3 TACOI LIG4 AIRE SRY KBTBD13 EIF2B5 MT-ND1 IKBKG DICERI TRMU MUSK SLC25A3 OTOF POMK TBP RAG2 UPF3B EDA RLBP1 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 19/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) RAB3GAP1 LAMB2 CEP41 RAD21 KDM6A MCPH1 CABP4 SPATA7 MTRR LAMA4 EFEMP2 NDUFS8 GALK1 SAG LCA5 NR2E3 EXT2 GCSH PPIB PORCN EHMT1 CTNNB1 CTNS TFR2 C3 HCN1 EIF2B1 SLX4 POU3F4 WDPCP INF2 LIAS CHRNB1 ACTB AP1S2 PHEX SPTB NEUROD1 RS1 NPPA SOX3 FGF23 MAN2B1 DNAH11 ERCC2 DGKE CCM2 NDUFAF2 EVC RAGI Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 20/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) HPS1 NDUFS3 NDUFS2 ZIC2 FGF8 LPL FASTKD2 TCTN2 CACNA1D HPS4 CACNA1F CLCN5 GJA5 SYP GP1BB FANCL ACSL4 IDH1 CLCNKB CISD2 ROR2 NEU1 GATAD1 MYH3 NDE1 PRPF31 ABCG5 NKX2-1 PGM1 TMEM237 FBP1 CDK5RAP2 NDUFAF5 ZFYVE26 DPM2 PHKA1 MT-ND6 STILL TUBB3 BICD2 IQSEC2 SPTA1 ITGA7 QDPR TIP2 PTS EIF2B3 NOD2 GLRA1 CSF1R - I1 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 21/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PRF1 ATN1 PAX4 GPSM2 CHMP2B CFB EYS FANCI ST3GAL3 AGPAT2 PDP1 IL7R HK1 PNPLA2 RAB27A DCLRE1C MC4R GYS2 B9D1 SCNN1A ANG ENPPI PRPF8 SFTPB FANCM AXIN2 LMX1B NHEJ1 SYNE2 TTC19 PROPI MAGT1 COL7A1 FANCD2 FSCN2 NDUFAF1 MT-ND4 KCNJ1 COL12A1 CNGA3 STAT3 TYRP1 NDUFS6 GUCA1B SLC2A2 SIX5 ADAR SLC33A1 CCDC39 AMACR Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 22/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) GAN HFE2 B3GLCT EFNB1 UQCRB SLC12A6 FGA HPS3 XRCC2 MTR C8&rf37 ACTN4 EVC2 THAP1 TRPS1 IDH3B RUNX2 LAMB3 SH2D1A GD11 TMC1 DNMTI PDCD10 MRPS22 LAMA3 TOPORS CHKB MTPAP CYP17A1 POMGNT2 SLCI2A1 ZIC3 GLI2 RD3 ALAS2 RPL35A CNGB1 LDLRAP1 DEPDC5 THBD DYRK1A SLC19A2 DNAl2 PGAM2 PNKD ASAH1 WDR35 VKORC1 DOCK8 PHGDH Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 23/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) SLC45A2 GP9 CCDC78 SPTLC1 ILIRAPL1 SLC35C1 UBE2A NROB1 CAVIN1 ACOX1 AGRN CA4 COL9A3 CNGA1 LAMC2 DTNBP1 EIF2B2 TTPA FLVCR1 MYH14 ERBB2 ITGB3 VLDLR WASHC5 NDUFA11 C2rf71 PTCHD1 NRL ALDH4A1 RSPH9 ATP5E GK CTDP1 ABL1 TCTN1 ANK1 CTSA SLC40A1 AKT3 B4GAT1 ZMPSTE24 MERTK EIF2B4 ERCC8 NUBPL PPOX PDLIM3 PNPLA6 TNXB PRKG1 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 24/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) FOXH1 COG7 RPL11 GPHN ABCG8 PDE6C B4GALT7 G6PC3 GNA11 CLCN2 NME8 KCNJ13 HEPACAM SLCOI1B1 UQCRQ NDUFAF4 TMEM138 MT-ND5 NDUFAF3 I-MBS NHP2 IFITM5 MBTPS2 SMN2 PDE6A VSX2 MYO6 CPOX ALG13 CCDC40 ALDH3A2 NIPA1 TSHR ZNF423 SQSTM1 MOCS2 L2HGDH sco1 TUBB4A TCOF1 MOCS MTO1 CIB2 HINT1 KIAA2022 ERCC3 PITX3 PRPF3 DNM1L TCTN3 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 25/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) FHL2 CA2 GRHPR PLEKHG5 CDON KLHL40 TSEN2 SLC1A3 RGR NEBL C5orf42 HPS6 GFH MYCN LZTR1 BRWD3 TSEN34 F11 SNRNP200 GNAT2 ALG1 TMEM126A SP7 KLHL7 TUFM DLG3 DNAAF2 DNAAF1 VPS13A NOPI0 TMEM5 MCEE STXBP2 MED25 SHANK3 SLC3A1 TECTA COXI0 CHRNG RDH5 CDHRI PHF8 RPL5 MAOA GFPT1 RAB3GAP2 CALM2 NAGS POLR1C HSD3B2 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 26/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) AMPD1 BUB1B NEK8 TUBA8 B3GALNT2 FLT3 MATR3 KRT5 GDF6 GREM1 AVPR2 DNAL1 ZDHHC9 CTC1 ALDOA NR5A1 CYBB FTSJ1 BLOC1S3 EBP DCAF17 SPG21 ACAD8 ABCB7 F12 GLRB GLIS2 EXOSC3 HUWE1 BMP4 TMIE GNPTG RPS26 ITGA2B LRSAM1 SLC6A3 ALDH18A1 SERPINC1 KLF11 F7 RPSIO WNTIOA NFIX MGAT2 ACSF3 RBBP8 CFHR5 COQ6 UBQLN2 CDKN1B Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 27/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) SUOX FAM126A COG8 NDUFA10 SMARCE1 ALG8 GSS EPB42 RPL10 DNAJC19 NAA10 KCNMA1 RPS24 STX11 ALG3 XK MFRP TMPRSS3 TSPAN7 SERPINH1 IMPG2 ALG12 SERPINE1 SLC16A1 TCIRGI STIM1 ETV6 CLCN7 GDF2 SLC35A1 FAM161A ARIDI TMEM231 SLC35A2 NGF COX412 POUI1 GLIS3 TAP1 PNP POMC KIF1BP BLK YARS2 TCN2 UNC13D HAMP HOGA1 ACADSB B4GALTI Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 28/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) MANBA KAT6B RSPH4A ACE EDAR WWOx FARS2 GNAQ GNPAT ANKH ENO3 FRAS1 RANGRF GALE TREM2 CD3D LEP TFG IER3|P1 DYNC2H1 NPM1 KMT2A CD40LG PYGL MT-CYB DFNB59 MRPS16 RTN2 KCNE5 MATN3 TAT NDUFV2 CDAN1 STS CAV1 B3GALT6 CTSK CALR3 KCNV2 AP4M1 SERPING1 GYS1 HPS5 ST3GAL5 SLC6A5 ARIA PRKRA COG1 COL4A2 EFEMP1 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 29/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PIK3R2 MTFMT SEPT9 FOXP1 NDUFAF6 ROM1 KRT14 SLC25AI2 SEC23B TNNI2 CD3E HPD PHKB AIP FZD4 XPNPEP3 CEP164 ITGB4 SLMAP PABPN1 TBCE GHR NOG CACNA2D4 ALG9 FOXL2 TYROBP THRB AP4E1 BDNF AKT2 DSPP MPDU1 EDARADD TPMT SPTBN2 BLOC1S6 FGF14 CTSF PRCD SRD5A3 PRPF6 TRAPPC11 PHKA2 COCH AGPS EARS2 FOXE3 IGBPI RBP3 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 30/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) PKLR PIGA MAT1A SPTLC2 CEP63 FBXO7 SETBP1 OTOA RTEL1 PTF1A LEPR SMARCAL1 SCP2 PCBD1 DMP1 MOGS CNTNI TNPO3 POLR3A SLC46A1 FOX11 MYO15A KCNQ4 MYOC PYCR1 APOA5 GRHL2 POR AICDA KISS1R PRDM16 ARSE LHFPL5 PDE6G HARS SNA12 VCAN SMPX CSF3R COL17A1 LOXHD1 MTTP SERPINF1 PROKR2 GNRHR D2HGDH B9D2 ZAP70 AP5Z1 CTNNA3 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 31/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) CSF2RA SLC34A3 ZNF513 TNFRSF11A CTRC RP9 HSPG2 KANSL1 RPS7 TRIOBP CEL SHROOM4 SLC7A7 RFTI ADAMTSL4 ABCA12 ABAT LPIN2 ERCC5 HGF PROC LHX4 ROGDI ABCA1 DIABLO ESCO2 PRDM5 PHKG2 FREM1 PRODH DIS3L2 RDX WRAP53 MC1R ACVR1 ZNF711 IFT80 ACVR2B EFTUD2 LTBP2 MEGF10 RAB18 CLDN14 FLT4 CCT5 SRCAP ESRRB PDZD7 NEKI NR3C2 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 32/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) TBX20 DNAJB2 FAS ATXN10 CFHR1 GDF5 PSTPIPI ARHGEF6 TDP1 GUCA1A OXCT1 PPP2R2B AQP2 TRPC6 MARVELD2 FECH OAT PEX11B PRICKLE2 APOC2 PDGFRB CACNA1H LHCGR SARS2 LRTOMT COL1OA1 XIAP UNG MGME1 SLC26A5 CYBA PITPNM3 PTH1R TIMP3 DRD2 PDE6H ALX4 TXNRD2 OBSLI ORC1 GH1 CSPP1 LEFTY2 CCDC50 ABCD4 DIAPH1 CDH3 CHCHD1O PAX8 GDNF Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 33/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) MT-CO1 HARS2 HTRA1 BMP1 MSRB3 ZDHHC15 CAVIN4 AP4S1 CFHR3 ACADL NDUFA9 MSX1 MYO3A CYPI11B2 CTFI MAK AP4B1 IFT122 ABHD5 MARS A2ML1 CHST3 CYLD GDF1 XPA MT-TH TPRN MT-TQ POU4F3 XPC GRIN1 GIPC3 CYP27BI POLR1D LHX3 TGFB1 TOR1AIP1 CNBP GM2A DDHD2 TRPM1 BCKDK DNAAF3 HSD11B2 ADAM9 CLCNKA NDUFB3 LAS1L MAG12 ANKRD1I Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 34/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) NMNAT1 ZFYVE27 DNMT3A PROK2 SMARCA2 GFER POLR3B NDUFA12 PLCE1 STRA6 EMX2 HMGCS2 ASCL1 COMT PROS KCNC3 ILK FGB ClOorf1l ILDR1 ANKRD26 GRXCRI SZT2 HNRNPDL KIF11 FGG DDC TTBK2 FREM2 ZNF469 TUSC3 TFAP2A DLL3 CLC2 GDF3 MT-TS2 CYP3A5 AHCY LDHA SLC52A3 PRKCSH ACY1 ACO2 KCNK3 AMER1 WNT1 MARS2 NYX VPS35 UROS Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 35/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) COG6 REN AVP MTOR TBX3 RBM10 PFN1 TPO MYBPC1 SERPINB6 PTPRC H19 ABCB6 WNT7A MYO5A CCDC88C ATP6VOA4 OSTM1 SRD5A2 CDT1 DFNA5 ESPN MYF6 USBI DDOST CRYM APOA1 ATXN8OS AGTR2 SLC17A8 MSX2 DST LTBP4 KLHL3 AAAS RFX6 LBR CYP3A4 F13A1 RAX2 RAC2 PREPL ERLIN2 ANK3 NFU1 LRP4 TNFRSF13B TNFSF11 SNAP29 LAMC3 Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 36/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) RBM8A ORC6 GRM6 COG5 ORC4 PDYN CRELD1 SLC5A7 ITGA3 SPINK5 WNT4 ENAM C1QTNF5 PDK3 HTRA2 GNB4 WNK4 COG4 MT-TI HSPB3 MT-TL2 HCFC1 POT1 ICOS SIGMARI ATP2A1 GNAT1 SOS2 CTSC FOXP2 TMEM165 CXCR4 SH3BP2 TACR3 CFC1 ABCC2 DNAJC6 DHODH CPA6 AK2 HOXD13 VPS45 PLOD3 KRT1 MT-ATP8 DNAAF5 TGM1 TSPAN12 IFT172 CD2AP Table 4 Clinical Testing Genes 37/37 Gene (HGNC Symbol) MRPL3 LIFR RIMS1 CNNM4 CDC6 F1O FOXC2 STAT5B PIK3R1 ORA11 ZNF81 ZFP57 CYP24A1 GLE1 COL18A1 TIA1 RPL26 GNA01 LCAT VDR ANO10 TNNT3 LZTFL1 COL4A6 SHANK2 REFERENCESAoki et al., 'The RAS/MAPK Syndromes: Novel Roles of the RAS Pathway in Human Genetic Disorders,' Human Mutation,.2008. KARCZEWSKI et al., 'Analysis of protein-coding genetic variation in 60,706 humans,' Nature, 2016. LANDRUM et al., 'ClinVar: public archive of interpretations of clinically relevant variants,' Nucleic Acis Res., 2015. MAXWELL et al., 'Evaluation of ACMG-Guideline-Based Variant Classification of Cancer Susceptibility and Non-Cancer-Associated Genes in Families Affected by Breast Cancer,' Am. J. Hum. Genet., 2016. MYERS et al., 'The lipid phosphatase activity of PTEN is critical for its tumor supressor function,' Proc. Nat!. Acad. Sci. US. A., 1998. MYERS etal., 'P-TEN., the tumor suppressor from hurn chromosome 10q23, is a dual specificity phosphatase,' Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.U S A., 1997 HE et al., 'Cowden syndrome-related mutations in PTEN associate with enhanced proteasome activity,' Cancer Res., 2013. HEIKKINEN et al., 'Variants on the promoter region of PTEN affect breast cancer progression and patient survival,' BreastCancerRes., 2011. JOHNSTON et al, 'Conformational stability and catalyticactivity of PTEN variants linked to cancers and autism spectrum disorders.' Biochemistry, 2015. MARKKANEN et al., 'DNA Damage and Repair in Schizophrenia and Autism: Implications for Cancer Comorbidity and Beyond,' Int.J.Mo.Sci. 2016. SCHARNER et al., 'Genotype--phenotype correlations in laminopathies: how does fate translate?,' Biochem. Soc. Trans., 2010. ARAYA et al., 'Deep mutational scanning: assessing protein function on a massive scale,' Trends Biotechnol., 2011. SHENDURE et al., 'Massivelv Parallel Genetics,' Genetics, 2016. KELSIC et al., 'RNA Structural Determinants of Optimal Codons Revealed by MAGE-Seq,' CellSyst, 2016. PATWARDHAN et al., 'High-resolution analysis of DNA regulatory elements by synthetic saturation mutagenesis,' Nat. Biotechnol., 2009. BUENROSTRO etal., 'Quantitative analysis of RNA-protein interactions on a massively parallel array reveals biophysical and evolutionary landscapes,'Nat. Biotechnol., 2014. GUENTHER etal., 'Hidden specificity inanapparently nonspecific RNA-binding protein,' Nature, 2013. ARAYA et al., 'A fundamental protein property, thermodynamic stability, revealed solely from large-scale measurements of protein function,' Proc. Nat. cad. Sci. U S. A, 2012. FOWLER et al.. 'High-resolution mapping of protein sequence-function relationships,'Nat. Methods, 2010. MAJITHIA etal., 'Prospective functional classification of all possible missense variants in PPARG,' Nat.Genet., 2016. STARITA et al., 'Massively Parallel Functional Analysis of BRCAI RING Domain Variants,' Genetics, 2015. BUENROSTRO et al., 'Single-cell chromatin accessibility reveals principles of regulatory variation,' Nature, 2015. CUSANOVICH et al..'Multiplex single-cell profiling of chromatin accessibility by combinatorial cellular indexing,'Science, 2015. CAO et al., 'Comprehensive single cell transcriptional profiling of a multicellular organism by combinatorial indexing,''bioRxiv, 2017. ZHENG et al., 'Massively parallel digital transcriptional profiling of single cells,'Vat. Common., 2017. DATLINGER et al., 'Pooled CRISPR screening with single-cell transcriptome readout,'Nat. Methods, 2017. JAITIN et al., 'Dissecting Immune Circuits by Linking CRISPR-Pooled Screens with Single Cell RNA-Seq,' Cell, 2016. ADAMSON et al., 'A Multiplexed Single-Cell CRISPR Screening Platform Enables Systematic Dissection of the Unfolded Protein Response,' Cell, 2016. DIXIT et al., 'Perturb-Seq: Dissecting Molecular Circuits with Scalable Single-Cell RNA Profiling of Pooled Genetic Screens,' Cell, 2016. MACOSKO et al., 'Highly Parallel Genome-wide Expression Profiling of Individual Cells Using Nanoliter Droplets,' Cell. 2015. GAWAD et al.. 'Single-cell genome sequencing: current state of the science,'Nat. Rev. Genet., 2016. TANAY et al., 'Scaling single-cell genomics from phenomenology tomechanism,' Nature, 2017. SCHWARTZMAN et al., 'Single-cell epigenomics: techniques and emerging applications,' Nat. Rev. Genet., 2015. BUZDIN et al., 'The OncoFinder'algorithm for minimizing the errors introduced by the high throughput methods of transcriptome analysis,' FrontMdo Biosci, 2014. MACOSKO et al., 'Hilhlv Parallel Genome-wide Expression Profiling of Individual Cells Using Nanoliter Droplets,' Cell, 2015. WHITFIELD et al., 'Identification of genes periodically expressed in the human cell cycle and their expression in tumors,' Mol. Biol. Cel., 2002. PAN etal., 'Using input dependent weights for model combinationand model selection with multiple sources of data,' Stat. Sin., 2006. EFRON etal., 'Improvements on Cross-Validation: The 632+ Bootstrap Method,'J. Am. Stat. Assoc., 1997. EFRON, 'How Biased is the Apparent Error Rate of a Prediction Rule?,' J. Am. Stat.Assoc., 1986. EFRON,'Estimating the Error Rate of a Prediction Rule: Improvement on Cross-Validation,'J. Am. Stat. Assoc., 1983. SHEN et al., 'Adaptive Model Selection and Assessment for Exponential Family Distributions,' Technometrics, 2004. SHEN et al., 'Adaptive Model Selection,'J Am. Stat. Assoc., 2002. GEORGE et al., 'Calibration and Empirical Bayes Variable Selection,' Biometrika., 2000. RIPLEYet al., 'Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks,' CambridgeUniversityPress, 2008. HASTIE et al,, 'The Elements of Statistical Leamning. Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction,' ,Springer, 2001. BURNHAM et al., 'Model Selection and Multimodel Inference: A Practical Information Theoretic Approach,'Springer, 2003. YUVAL, 'Bootstrapping with Noise: An Effective Regularization Technique,' Connection Science, 1996. AMENDOLA etal.. 'Performance of ACMG-AMP Variant-Interpretation Guidelines among Nine Laboratories in the Clinical Sequencing Exploratory Research Consortium,' Am. J. Rum. Genet., 2016. BERGER, et al., 'igh-throughput Phenotyping of Lung Cancer Somatic Mutations,' Cancer Cell, 2016 30(2); pp. 214-228. MACOSKO, et al., 'Highly Parallel Genome-wide Expression Profiling of Individual Cells Using Nanoliter Droplets,' Cell, 2015 161(5); pp.1202-1214. STARITA et al., 'Deep Mutational Scanning: A Highly Parallel Method to Measure the Effects of Mutation on Protein Function,' Cold SpringilarbProtoc. 2015(8); pp. 7 1 1--714. SHENDURE et al., 'A framework for determining the relative effect of genetic variants.' U.S. PatentApplication No. 15/023,355, filed March 18., 2016. REGEV et al., 'A droplet-based method and apparatus for composite single-cell nucleic acid analysis,' International Patent Publication No. WO 2016/040476, published March 17, 2016. KALIA SS, et al., 'Recommendations for reporting of secondary findings in clinical exome and genome sequencing, 2016 update (ACMG SF v2.0): apolicy statement of the American College of Medical Geneticsand Genomics,' GenetMed., 2016. FUTREAL AP, et al., 'A census of human cancer genes,'Nat Rev Cancer, 2004 4(3); pp. 177 183. LAWRENCE MS, et al., 'Discovery and saturation analysis of cancer genes across 21 tumour types,' Nature, 2014 505(7484); pp. 495-501. WHIRL-CARRILLO et al., 'Pharmacogenomics knowledge for personalized medicine.' Clin Pharmacolyher, 2012 92(4); pp. 414-417. RUBINSTEIN et al., 'TheNiH- genetic testingregistry: anew, centralized database ofgenetic tests to enable access to comprehensive information and improve transparency,' Nucleic Acis Res, 2013 4; pp. D925-35. SAMOCHA KE, et al. (2017) 'Regional missense constraint improves variant deleteriousness prediction,' bioRxiv:148353. Kitzman, J. 0., Starita, L. M., Lo, R S., Fields, S. & Shendure, J. Massively parallel single amino-acid mutagenesis. Nat. Methods 12, 203-206 (2015). Findlay, G.M., Boyle, E. a., Hause, RJ., Klein, J.C., and Shendure, J. (2014). Saturation editing of genornic regions by multiplex homology-directed repair. Nature 513, 1-2. Firnberg, E. & Ostermeier, M. PFunkel: Efficient, Expansive, User-Defined Mutagenesis. PLoS One 7, 1-10 (2012). Wrenbeck, E. E. et al. Plasmid-based one-pot saturation mutagenesis. Nat. Methods 13, 928-930 (2016). Wissink, E. M., Fogarty, E. A. & Grimson, A. High-throughput discovery of post-transcriptional cis-regulatory elements. BMC Genomics 17, 1---14(2016). Arava etal. 2016, U.S. Patent Application 20160378915AL.

### Claims

Claims (15) WHAT IS CLAIMED A computer implemented method for determining phenotypic impacts of molecular variants identified within a biological sample, comprising: (a) receiving molecular measurements of molecular variants associated with one or more functional elements within a model system, wherein the model system comprises single cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments; (b) determining molecular scores or phenotype scores of the model system from the molecular measurements of the molecular variants using an Artificial Neural Network (ANN); (c) determining molecular signals or phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants based on the respective molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring specific molecular variants by using an autoencoder generated by an ANN, wherein the molecular signals or phenotype signals are reduced representations of the molecular scores or the phenotype scores; (d) determining functional scores or functional classifications for the molecular variants by using an ANN that generates a functional model that associates the molecular signals or the phenotype signals of molecular variants with phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants; and (e) determining the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants based on the functional scores or the functional classifications, wherein the functional elements are associated with (1) Mendelian disorders, (2) known cancer-drivers, or (3) variation in drug response. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the ANN that generates a functional model comprises a training/validation layer that performs training and validation to generate the functional model. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the training/validation layer deploys a K-fold or Leave One-Out Cross-Validation (LOOCV) cross-validation technique. 4. The method of any previous claim, wherein additional annotation features are provided during training and testing of the functional model, and wherein the additional annotation features are one or more of evolutionary, population, functional, structural, dynamical, and physicochemical features associated with the variants. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the predictor scores or predictor classifications of the molecular variants are derived from a Variant Interpretation Engine (VIE), wherein the VIE is generated by applying machine learning techniques to associate the functional scores or functional classifications and non-assayed features with the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecular signals comprise: (i) lower-order molecular signals of the molecular variants that are derived as summary statistics, summary statistics, descriptive statistics, inferential statistics, or Bayesian inference models of the molecular scores measured in the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring the molecular variants; or (ii) higher-order molecular signals of the molecular variants that are derived by applying pre-existing models that associate lower-order molecular signals to regulatory, signaling, pathway, processing, cell-cycle activities, alterations, defects, or states; or (iii) higher-order molecular signals of the molecular variants that are derived via unsupervised learning, feature learning, or dimensionality reduction techniques from lower-order molecular signals. 7. The method of any one of claim 1 to claim 5 wherein the molecular measurements correspond to: (i) locus-specific measurements of gene expression, protein expression, chromatin accessibility, epigenetic modification, regulatory activity, post-transcriptional processing, post-translational modification, mutation status, mutation burden, or mutation rate of molecules within the model system; (ii) multi-locus measurements of gene expression, protein expression, chromatin accessibility, epigenetic modification, regulatory activity, transcriptional activity, translational activity, signaling activity, pathway activity, mutation status, mutation burden, or mutation rate, among others, derived from molecular measurements within the model system; or (iii) global measurements of gene expression, protein expression, chromatin accessibility, epigenetic modification, regulatory activity, transcriptional activity, translational activity, signaling activity, pathway activity, mutation status, mutation burden, or mutation rate, among others, derived from molecular measurements or molecular processes within the model system; and wherein the molecular measurements comprise: sequencing read quality control, cellular barcode identification or quality control, molecular barcode identification or quality control, sequencing read alignment to a reference genome, sequencing read alignment filtering or quality control, mapping filtered and quality-controlled sequencing reads to functional elements, mapping filtered and quality-controlled molecular barcodes to functional elements, and mapping filtered and quality-controlled sequencing reads or molecular barcodes for specific cellular barcodes to functional elements. 8. The method of any previous claim, wherein the molecular signals or the phenotype signals are: (i) molecular state-specific, derived from populations of the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments from a specific molecular state to permit learning in a state-specific learning layer; or (ii) molecular state-agnostic, derived from populations of the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments from a plurality of molecular states to permit learning in a state-agnostic learning layer; or (iii) molecular state-ordered, derived from populations of the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments from a plurality of molecular states to permit learning in a multi-state learning layer. 9. The method of any previous claim, wherein the molecular variants correspond to coding or non-coding variants within 10 bp, 50 bp, 100 bp, 500 bp, or 1000 bp of previously identified mutational hotspots or constrained regions of functional elements, genes and pathways associated with Mendelian disorders, known cancer-drivers, variation in drug response, or with other clinically-valuable genes. 10. The method of any previous claim, wherein the phenotype scores of the model system comprise: (i) lower-order phenotype scores, wherein the lower-order phenotype scores correspond to scores or classifications generated by a phenotype model through the use of statistical learning techniques that associate molecular scores and molecular states of model systems with the phenotypic impacts of molecular variants within each model system; or (ii) higher-order phenotype scores, wherein the higher-order phenotype scores are derived by (a) applying pre-existing models that associate lower-order phenotype scores to regulatory, signaling, pathway, processing, cell-cycle activities, alterations, defects, or states, or (b) unsupervised learning, feature learning, or dimensionality reduction techniques from lower-order phenotype scores. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants comprise: (i) lower-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants, wherein the lower-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants are derived as summary statistics, descriptive statistics, inferential statistics, Bayesian inference models of the phenotype scores measured in the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring the molecular variants; or (ii) higher-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants, wherein the higher-order phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants are derived by applying (a) pre-existing models that associate lower-order phenotype signals to regulatory, signaling, pathway, processing, cell-cycle activities, alterations, defects, or states, or (b) unsupervised learning, feature learning, or dimensionality reduction techniques from lower-order phenotype signals. 12. The method of any previous claim, further comprising: (f) accessing a collection of molecular variants with putative or known phenotypic impacts from pre-existing sources; (g) increasing the collection of molecular variants with putative or known phenotypic impacts using a prediction model; (h) selecting a first set of genotypes with putative or known phenotypic impacts using a sampling model; (i) selecting a second set of genotypes with unknown, putative, or known phenotypic impacts using a sampling model; () selecting a third set of genotypes with unknown, putative, or known phenotypic impacts using a sampling model; (k) generating a functional model by applying statistical learning techniques that associates molecular signals or phenotype signals of the first set of genotypes with putative or known phenotypic impacts; (1) generating predicted phenotypic impacts for the second set of genotypes by applying the functional model to make predictions based on molecular signals or phenotype signals of the second set of genotypes; (m) generating an inference model by applying statistical learning techniques, wherein the inference model associates non-assayed features with phenotypic impacts of molecular variants; and (n) generating predicted phenotypic impacts of the third set of genotypes by applying the inference model to make predictions based on non-assayed features of the third set of genotypes. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecular scores or the phenotype scores of the molecular variants comprise adjusted molecular scores or phenotype scores computed (i) as a difference between the molecular scores or the phenotype scores of the molecular variants and the molecular scores or the phenotype scores of reference molecular variants or reference model system, or (ii) by normalizing the molecular scores or the phenotype scores of the molecular variants against molecular scores or phenotype scores of reference molecular variants or reference model system. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein molecular signals or phenotype signals of molecular variants comprise adjusted molecular signals or phenotype signals respectively, computed (i) as the difference between the molecular signals or phenotype signals of molecular variants and the molecular signals or phenotype signals of reference molecular variants; (ii) by normalizing the molecular signals or the phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants by molecular signals or phenotype signals of reference molecular variants; or (iii) as quantiles of the molecular signals or the phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants among molecular signals or phenotype signals of reference molecular variants. 15. A system, comprising: (a) a memory; and (b) at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured for: (i) receiving molecular measurements of molecular variants associated with one or more functional elements within a model system, wherein the model system comprises single cells, cellular compartments, subcellular compartments, or synthetic compartments; (ii) determining molecular scores or phenotype scores of model system from the molecular measurements of the molecular variants using an Artificial Neural Network (ANN); (iii) determining molecular signals or phenotype signals associated with the molecular variants based on the respective molecular scores or phenotype scores of the single cells, the cellular compartments, the subcellular compartments, or the synthetic compartments harboring specific molecular variants by using an autoencoder generated by an ANN, wherein the molecular signals or phenotype signals are reduced representations of the molecular scores or the phenotype scores; (iv) determining functional scores or functional classifications for the molecular variants by using an ANN that generates a functional model that associates the molecular signals or the phenotype signals of molecular variants with phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants; and (v) determining the phenotypic impacts of the molecular variants based on the functional scores or the functional classifications, wherein the functional elements are associated with (1) Mendelian disorders, (2) known cancer-drivers, or (3) variation in drug response.
