## Patent Reference

- Title: Markers associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia prognosis and progression
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/WO2013086464A1/en

### Abstract

Abstract The present invention provides methods and devices related to markers (or biomarkers) associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Examples of these markers include drivers of CLL progression. The invention contemplates, inter alia, detecting the clonal, including subclonal, profile of CLL in a subject and the presence (or absence) of subclonal driver mutations, and utilizing this information in predicting disease progression, need, timing and/or nature of treatment regimen, and likelihood and frequency of relapse.

### Description

Description MARKERS ASSOCIATED WITH CHRONIC LYMPHOCYTIC LEUKEMIA PROGNOSIS AND PROGRESSION RELATED APPLICATIONS This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/567,941, filed December 7, 2011, the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH This invention was made with U.S. Government support under grant number 1RO1HL103532-01 from the NHLBI and grant number 1RO1CA155010-01A1 from the NCI. Accordingly, the U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention. FIELD OF THE INVENTION The present invention provides methods and devices for prognosing chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) using one or more markers, as well methods of treating CLL using for example a modulator of SF3B1 activity. BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) remains incurable and displays vast clinical heterogeneity despite a common diagnostic immunophenotype (surface expression of CD19+CD20+dimCD5+ CD23+ and slgMdim)- While some patients experience an indolent disease course, approximately half have steadily progressive disease leading to significant morbidity and mortality (Zenz, Nat Rev Cancer, 2010, 10:37-50). Our ability to predict a more aggressive disease course has improved through the use of biologic markers (such as presence of somatic hypermutation of the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region [IGHV status] and ZAP70 expression), and detection of cytogenetic abnormalities (such as deletions in chromosomes l lq, 13q, and 17p and trisomy 12) (Rassenti, N Engl J Med, 2004, 351:893-901; Dohner, N Engl J Med, 2000, 343: 1910-6). Still, prediction of disease course is not highly reliable. Accordingly a need exists for the identification of biomarkers that can predict aggressive disease progression in patients with CLL. SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION The invention provides, inter alia, prognostic factors for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). An example of such a prognostic factor is SF3B1. According to some aspect of the invention, it has been found unexpectedly that the presence of a SF3B 1 mutation in a CLL sample indicates a poor prognosis. Detection of SF3B1 mutations may dictate, in some instances, an altered treatment, including but not limited to an aggressive treatment. The invention contemplates integrating SF3B 1 mutation status into predictive and prognostic algorithms that currently use other markers, given the now recognized value of SF3B1 as an independent prognostic factor. SF3B1 mutation status can be used together with other factors, such as ZAP70 expression status and mutated IGVH status, to more accurately determine disease progression and likelihood of response to treatment, among other things. Other such prognostic factors include HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. In one aspect, the invention provides methods of determining a treatment regimen for a subject having CLL by identifying a mutation in the SF3B1 gene in a subject sample. The presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B1 gene may indicate that the subject should receive an alternative treatment regimen (compared to a prior treatment regimen administered to the patient). In some embodiments, the presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B1 gene indicates that the subject should receive an aggressive treatment regimen (for example a treatment that is more aggressive than a prior treatment administered to the patient). In some embodiments, the presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B1 gene indicates that the subject should receive a treatment that acts through a different mechanism than a prior treatment or a modality that is different from a prior treatment. In another aspect, the invention provides methods of determining whether a subject having CLL would derive a clinical benefit of early treatment by identifying a mutation in the SF3B1 gene in a subject sample. The presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B1 gene indicates that the subject would derive a clinical benefit of early treatment. In a further aspect, the invention provides methods predicting survivability of a subject having CLL by identifying a mutation in the SF3B1 gene in a subject sample. The presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B1 gene indicates the subject is less likely to survive or has a poor clinical prognosis. Also included in the invention is method of identifying a candidate subject for a clinical trial for a treatment protocol for CLL by identifying a mutation in the SF3B 1 gene in a subject sample. The presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B1 gene indicates that the subject is a candidate for the clinical trial. In some embodiments, the mutation is a missense mutation. In some embodiments, the mutation is a R625L, a N626H, a K700E, a G740E, a K741N or a Q903R mutation in the SF3B1 polypeptide. In some embodiments, the mutation is a E622D, a R625G, a Q659R, a K666Q, a K666E, and a G742D mutation in the SF3B1 polypeptide. It is to be understood that the invention contemplates detection of nucleic acid mutations that correspond to the various amino acid mutations recited herein. In some embodiments, the mutation in the SF3B1 gene is within exons 14-17 of the SF3B1 gene. In some embodiments, the method further comprises detecting at least one other CLL-associated marker. In some embodiments, the at least one other CLL-associated marker is mutated IGVH status or ZAP70 expression status. In some embodiments, the method further comprises detecting (or identifying) at least one CLL-associated chromosomal abnormality. In some embodiments, the at least one CLL-associated chromosomal abnormality is selected from the group consisting of 8p deletion, l lq deletion, 13q deletion, 17p deletion, trisomy 12, monosomy 13, and rearrangements of chromosome 14. The invention further contemplates methods related to those recited above but wherein mutations in one or more of HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ΓΓΡΚΒ, and EGR2 genes are analyzed. Any of the foregoing methods may further comprise analyzing genomic DNA for the presence of mutations in one or more of TP53, ATM, MYD88, NOTCH1, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, and POT1. In yet another aspect the invention provides methods of treating or alleviating a symptom of CLL by administering to a subject a compound that modulates SF3B1. Such a compound may inhibit or activate SF3B1 activity or may alter SF3B1 expression. The compound may be, for example, spliceostatin, E7107, or pladienolide. In another aspect, the invention provides a kit comprising (i) a first reagent that detects a mutation in a SF3B1 gene; (ii) optionally, a second reagent that detects at least one other CLL-associated marker; (iii) optionally, a third reagent that detects at least one CLL- associated chromosomal abnormality; and (iv) instructions for their use. The mutations in (i), (ii), and (iii) may be any of the foregoing recited mutations. The invention further provides other related kits in which the first reagent detects mutations in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ΓΓΡΚΒ, and EGR2. The second reagent may be a reagent that detects mutations in TP53, ATM, MYD88, NOTCH1, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, or POT1. The third reagent may be a reagent that detects a 8p deletion, 1 lq deletion, 13q deletion, 17p deletion, trisomy 12, monosomy 13, or a rearrangement of chromosome 14. The kit may comprise one or more first reagents (specific for the same or different risk alleles), one or more second reagents (specific for the same or different risk alleles), and one or more third reagents (specific for the same or different risk alleles). In some embodiments, the first, second and third reagents are polynucleotides that are capable of hybridizing to the genes or chromosomes of (i), (ii) and/or (iii), wherein said polynucleotides are optionally linked to a detection label. The binding pattern of these polynucleotides denotes the presence or absence of the above-noted mutations. The invention is further premised in part on the discovery that the clonal (including subclonal) profile of a CLL has independent prognostic value. It has been found that the presence of particular mutations, referred to herein as drivers, in CLL subclones is indicative of more rapid disease progression, greater likelihood of relapse, and shorter remission times. The ability to analyze a CLL sample for the presence of subclonal populations and more importantly drivers in the subclonal populations informs the subject and the medical practitioner about the likely disease course, and thereby influences decisions relating to whether to treat a subject or to delay treatment of the subject, the nature of the treatment (e.g., relative to prior treatment), and the timing and frequency of the treatment. Some aspects of this disclosure therefore relate to the surprising discovery that the clonal heterogeneity of CLL in a subject is prognostic of the course of the disease, and informs decisions regarding treatment. In some aspects, the disclosure provides novel, independent prognostic markers of CLL. The invention provides methods and apparati for detection of one or more of these independent prognostic factors. In some aspects, the presence of one or more of these independent prognostic markers in a CLL sample, and particularly in a subclonal population, alone or in combination with other CLL prognostic markers whether or not in subclonal populations, indicates the severity or aggressiveness of the disease, and informs the type, timing, and degree of treatment to be prescribed for a patient. These independent prognostic factors include mutations in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, and POT1, and mutations that are selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. Any combination of two or more of these mutations may be used, in some methods of the invention. In some embodiments where two or more mutations are analyzed, at least one of those mutations is selected from the group consisting of HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2, and optionally also including SF3B1. In some embodiments, the independent prognostic factors include subclonal mutations in any one of HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(l lq), and del(17p). Additional independent prognostic factors include subclonal mutations in SF3B1, MYD88, and TP53 and subclonal del(13q) and subclonal trisomy 12. In another aspect, the invention provides a method comprising (a) analyzing genomic DNA in a sample obtained from a subject having or suspected of having CLL for the presence of mutation in a risk allele, (b) determining whether the mutation is clonal or subclonal (i.e., whether the mutation is present in a clonal population of CLL cells or a subclonal population of CLL cells), and optionally (c) identifying the subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression if the mutation is a driver event and subclonal. In some embodiments, the risk allele is selected from SF3B1, HIST 1H IE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, TP53, ATM, MYD88, NOTCH1, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, and POT1. In some embodiments, the risk allele is selected from SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ΓΓΡΚΒ, EGR2, TP53, MYD88, NOTCHl, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, and POTl . In some embodiments, the risk allele is selected from HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ΓΓΡΚΒ, EGR2, NOTCHl, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, and POTl. In some embodiments, the risk allele is selected from HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. In some embodiments, the risk allele is selected from del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. In some embodiments, the risk allele is selected from del(8p), del(l lq), and del(17p). In some embodiments, the method comprises analyzing genomic DNA for (a) a mutation in one or more risk alleles selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCHl, XPOl, CHD2, and POTl, and/or (b) a mutation that is selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. In some embodiments, the method comprises analyzing genomic DNA for (a) a mutation in one or more risk alleles selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, TP53, MYD88, NOTCHl, XPOl, CHD2, and POTl, and/or (b) a mutation that is selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. In some embodiments, the method comprises analyzing genomic DNA for (a) a mutation in one or more risk alleles selected from the group consisting of HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, NOTCHl, XPOl, CHD2, and POTl, and/or (b) a mutation that is selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(l lq), and del(17p). In some embodiments, the method comprises analyzing genomic DNA for a mutation in one or more risk alleles selected from the group consisting of HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. In some embodiments, the method comprises analyzing genomic DNA for the presence of a mutation in one or more of at least 2 risk alleles chosen from the group consisting of SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. In some embodiments, the method comprises analyzing genomic DNA for the presence of a mutation in one or more of at least 2 risk alleles chosen from the group consisting of SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. In some embodiments, the method comprises analyzing genomic DNA for the presence of a mutation in one or more of at least 2 risk alleles chosen from the group consisting of HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(l lq), and del(17p). In some embodiments, the method comprises analyzing genomic DNA for the presence of a mutation in one or more of at least 2 risk alleles chosen from the group consisting of HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. At least 2 intends and embraces at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at least 8, at least 9, or at least 10. In some embodiments, the at least 2, at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at least 8, or at least 9 of the risk alleles analyzed are selected from the group consisting of HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. In another aspect, the invention provides a method comprising (a) detecting a mutation in genomic DNA from a sample obtained from a subject having or suspected of having CLL, (b) detecting clonal and/or subclonal populations of cells carrying the mutation, and optionally (c) identifying the subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression if the mutation is a driver event present in a subclonal population of cells. In another aspect, the invention provides a method comprising detecting, in genomic DNA of a sample from a subject having or suspected of having CLL, presence or absence of a mutation in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, and POT1 and/or a mutation that is selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12, and determining if the mutation, if present, is in a subclonal population of the CLL sample. In some embodiments, the mutation is in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, and POT1. In some embodiments, the mutation is in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, and POT1. In some embodiments, the mutation is in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. In some embodiments, the mutation is selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(l lq), and del(17p). Various embodiments apply equally to the foregoing methods and these are recited now for brevity. The methods of the invention are typically performed on a sample obtained from a subject and are in vitro methods. In some embodiments, the sample is obtained from peripheral blood, bone marrow, or lymph node tissue. In some embodiments, the genomic DNA is analyzed using whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing (WES), single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis, or deep sequencing, targeted gene sequencing, or any combination thereof. These techniques may be used in whole or in part to detect the mutations and the subclonal nature of the mutations. In some embodiments, the methods further comprise treating a subject identified as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression. In some embodiments, the methods further comprise delaying treatment of the subject for a specified or unspecified period of time (e.g., months or years). In some embodiments, the methods are performed before and after treatment. In some embodiments, the methods are repeated every 6 months or if there is a change in clinical status. In some embodiments, genomic DNA is analyzed for mutations in more than one risk allele. In some embodiments, the method analyzes genomic DNA for mutations in two or more of the HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2 genes, including three or more, four or more, five or more, six or more, seven or more, eight or more, or all nine of the genes. Any of the foregoing subclonal driver methods may be combined with detection of mutations in other genes (or gene loci or chromosomal regions) regardless of whether these latter mutations are clonal or subclonal. For example, the methods may comprise detection of mutations in one or more of TP53, ATM, MYD88, SF3B1, NOTCH1, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, POTl, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12, without determining the clonal or subclonal nature of such mutations. In another aspect, the invention provides a kit comprising reagents for detecting (1) mutations in one or more risk alleles selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ΓΓΡΚΒ, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, POTl, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, and ATM, and/or (2) mutations selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), or trisomy 12, in a sample obtained from a patient. In another aspect, the invention provides a kit comprising reagents for detecting (1) mutations in one or more risk alleles selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ΓΓΡΚΒ, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, POTl, TP53, MYD88, and NOTCH1, and/or (2) mutations selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), or trisomy 12, in a sample obtained from a patient. In another aspect, the invention provides a kit comprising reagents for detecting (1) mutations in one or more risk alleles selected from the group consisting of HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, POTl, and NOTCH 1, and/or (2) mutations selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(l lq), and del(17p), in a sample obtained from a patient. The kit may comprise reagents for detecting on mutations in (1) or only mutations in (2), or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the kit comprises reagents for detecting mutations in at least one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, or nine risk alleles selected from the group consisting of HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ΓΓΡΚΒ, and EGR2. In some embodiments, the kit is used to determine whether the mutation is a subclonal mutation. In some embodiments, the kit comprises instructions for determining whether the mutation is a subclonal mutation. In some embodiments, the subclonal mutation is at least one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten risk alleles selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, DDX3x, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, and EGR2. In some embodiments, the kit comprises instructions for the prognosis of the patient based on presence or absence of subclonal mutations, wherein the presence of a subclonal mutation indicates the patient has an elevated risk of rapid CLL disease progression. The kits are therefore useful in determining prognosis of a patient with CLL. Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention pertains. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice of the present invention, suitable methods and materials are described below. All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety. In cases of conflict, the present specification, including definitions, will control. In addition, the materials, methods, and examples described herein are illustrative only and are not intended to be limiting. Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from and encompassed by the following detailed description and claims. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG. 1 shows significantly mutated genes in CLL. The 9 significantly mutated genes across 91 CLL samples are summarized, n- number of mutations per gene detected in 91 CLL samples. (%)- percent patients harboring the mutated gene. N- total territory in base pairs with sufficient sequencing coverage across 91 sequenced tumor/normal pairs, p- and q- values were calculated by comparing the probability of seeing the observed constellation of mutations to the background mutation rates calculated across the dataset. FIG. 2 shows core signaling pathways in CLL. Genes in which mutations were identified are depicted within their respective core signaling pathways. The significantly mutated genes are indicated in dark grey, while mutations in other genes within a pathway are indicated in light. A list of the additional mutated pathway-associated genes is provided in Table 7. FIG. 3 shows associations between gene mutations and clinical characteristics. The 91 CLL samples were sorted based on the Dohner hierarchy for FISH cytogenetics (Dohner, N Engl J Med, 2000, 343: 1910-6) and were scored for presence or absence of mutations in the 9 significantly mutated genes as well as additional pathway-associated genes (scored in lighter shade), and for IGHV status (darker shade-mutated; white-unmutated; hatched- unknown). A list of the additional mutated pathway-associated genes is provided in Table 7. Associations between gene mutation status and FISH cytogenetics or IGHV status were calculated using the Fisher exact test, and corrected for multiple hypothesis testing (q<= 0.1 for all comparisons shown). FIG. 4 shows mutation in SF3B1 is associated with altered splicing in CLL. (A) Cox multivariable regression model analysis of significant factors contributing to earlier TTFT from the 91 genome/exome sequenced CLL samples. HR-hazards ratio. Cl-confidence interval. (B) The relative amounts of spliced and unspliced spliceosome target mRNAs BRD2 and RIOK3 in normal CD19+ B (n=6) and CLL-B cells with wildtype (WT, n=17) or mutated SF3B1 (mut, n=13) were measured by quantitative PCR. The ratios of unspliced to spliced mRNAs were normalized to the percentage of leukemia cells per sample, and comparisons were calculated using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Analysis of the 30 CLL samples based on presence or absence of del(l lq) further revealed this result to be independent of del(l lq) (see FIG. 10B). FIG. 5 shows mutation rate is unrelated to treatment status in CLL patients. (A) Clinical summary of the 91 patients sequenced. (B) Mutation rate is similar between 61 chemotherapy-naive and 30 chemo-treated CLL samples. FIGs. 6A-F show mutations in SF3B1, FBXW7, DDX3X, NOTCH1 and ZMYM3 occur in evolutionarily conserved regions. For SF3B1, of the 14 novel mutations discovered in 91 CLL samples, all were localized to conserved regions of genes. Where available, alignments of gene sequences around each mutation are shown for human, mouse, zebrafish, C.elegans and S.pombe genes using sequences available at the USCS Genomic Bioinformatics website. A similar analysis was performed in the other significantly mutated genes. FIG. 7 shows mutation types and locations in the 9 significantly mutated genes. (A- I) Type (missense, splice-site, nonsense) and location of mutations in the 9 significantly mutated genes discovered among the 91 CLL samples (top) compared to previously reported mutations in literature or in the COSMIC database (v76) (bottom). Dashed boxes in (B), (C) and (F) indicate mutations localizing to a discrete gene territory. FIG. 8 shows mutations in genes that are pathway related to driver mutations occur in evolutionarily conserved locations. Where available, alignments of gene sequences around each mutation are shown for human, mouse, chicken and zebrafish, genes. These nucleotide sequences can be found at the USCS Genomic Bioinformatics website. FIG. 9 shows mutation in SF3B1 is associated with earlier TTFT. (A) Percent samples harboring the SF3B1-K700E, MYD88-L265P or NOTCH 1-P2514fs mutations, within the 78 exomes with known IGHV mutation status (U-unmutated; M-mutated), and the 82 extension set CLL samples with known IGHV mutation status. Mutations were detected by exome sequencing for the 78 samples in the discovery set and by Mass Sequenom genotyping for the 82 samples analyzed in the extension set. (B) Kaplan-Meier curves of the probability of time-to-first-therapy for 91 patients included in our discovery set (left), and for 101 patient samples that underwent genotyping of the SF3B1-K700E mutation in the extension set (right). Samples were categorized based on the presence or absence of del(l lq) and the presence or absence of SF3B1 mutations. Patients with either del(l lq) or SF3B1 mutation or both demonstrate significantly shorter time to first therapy as compared to all others (log-rank test). FIG. 10 shows altered splicing in CLL is associated with mutation in SF3B1 but not del(l lq). (A) Treatment with E7107, which targets the SF3b complex generates increased ratio of unspliced to spliced RIOK3 and BRD2 mRNA. Hela cells, normal CD 19+ B cells and CLL cells were treated with E7107 for 4 hours. Unspliced (U) and spliced (S) BRD2 and RIOK3 were amplified by reverse transcription PCR and analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis. (B) The relative amounts of spliced and unspliced BRD2 and RIOK3 mRNAs, measured by quantitative PCR, based on presence or absence of del(l lq) and WT or mut SF3B1 are shown. The ratios of unspliced to spliced mRNAs were normalized to the percentage of leukemia cells per sample, and comparisons were calculated using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. FIG. 11 shows the distribution of allelic fraction of 2348 coding mutations (535 synonymous, 1813 non-synonymous) detected from 91 sequenced CLL samples. FIGs. 12A and B show significantly mutated genes and associated gene pathways in 160 CLL samples. (A) Mutation significance analysis, using the MutSig2.0 and GISTIC2.0 algorithms identifies recurrently mutated genes and recurrent sCNAs in CLL, respectively. Bold - significantly mutated genes identified in the previous CLL analysis discussed above (Wang et al., 2011). * - additional novel CLL genes identified in this experiment (also see FIG. 19). 'n' - number of samples out of 160 CLLs harboring a mutation in a specific gene; 'n_cosmic' - number of samples harboring a mutation in a specific gene at a site previously observed in the COSMIC database. (B) The significantly mutated genes fall into seven core signaling pathways, in which the genes play roles in DNA damage repair and cell-cycle control, Notch signaling, inflammatory pathways, Wnt signaling, RNA splicing and processing, B cell receptor signaling and chromatin modification. Darker shade - genes with significant mutation frequencies; lighter shade - additional pathway genes with mutations. FIGs. 13A-D show that subclonal and clonal somatic single nucleotide variants (sSNVs) are detected in CLL in varying quantities based on age at diagnosis, IGHV mutation status, and treatment status (also see FIG. 20). (A) The analysis workflow. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and SNP array data were collected from matched germline and tumor DNA and processed to identify recurrent driver events using MutSig2.0 and GISTIC2.0 ('CLL driver events', in darker shaded box). For the 149 samples that had matched WES and copy number data, the algorithm ABSOLUTE (Carter et al., 2012) was applied to provide estimates of cancer cell fraction (CCF). Mutations were classified as subclonal or clonal, as indicated, based on the probability that their CCF is greater than 0.95 (clonal). Inset - Histogram of the probability of being clonal for the entire set of sSNVs across 149 CLL samples. (B) A representative example of the transformations generated by ABSOLUTE (for sample CLL088). First, probability density distributions of allelic fractions for each mutation are plotted (representative peaks for sSNVs a, b and c shown in this example). Second, these data are converted to CCF (right panel), incorporating purity and local copy number information. The probability of the event being clonal (i.e., affecting >0.95 of cells) is represented by the shade of the event: lighter shade-high probability; darker shade-low probability. * -marks the allelic fraction of a clonal mutation at multiplicity of 1 (for example, a heterozygous mutation in a diploid region). (C) Comparison of the number of subclonal and clonal sSNVs per sample based on patient age at diagnosis and IGHV mutation status. (D) Comparison of the number of subclonal and clonal sSNVs per sample based on treatment status at time of sample collection (top panel). Cumulative distribution of the sSNVs by CCF is shown for samples from treated and untreated patients for all sSNVs (middle panel) and only driver sSNVs (bottom panel). FIGs. 14A and B show the identification of earlier and later CLL driver mutations (also see FIG. 21). (A) Distribution of estimated cancer cell fraction (CCF) (bottom panel) and percent of the mutations classified as clonal (top panel-orange) or subclonal (top-blue) for each of the defined CLL drivers; * - drivers with q-values <0.1 for a higher proportion of clonal mutations compared with the entire CLL drivers set (Fisher exact test and FWER with the Bonferroni method). Het - heterozygous deletion; Horn - homozygous deletion. The analysis includes all recurrently mutated genes (see also FIG.12A) with 3 or more events in the 149 samples, excluding sSNVs affecting the X chromosome currently not analyzable by ABSOLUTE, and also excluding indels in genes other than in NOTCH1. (B) All CLL samples with the early drivers MYD88 (left) or trisomy 12 (right) and at least 1 additional defined CLL driver (i.e. 9 of 12 samples with mutated MYD88; 14 of 16 tumors with trisomy 12) are depicted. Each dot denotes a separate individual CLL sample. FIGs. 15A and B show the results of a longitudinal analysis of subclonal evolution in CLL and its relation to therapy (also see FIG. 22). Joint distributions of cancer cell fraction (CCF) values across two timepoints were estimated using clustering analysis. * - denotes a mutation that had an increase in CCF of greater than 0.2 (with probability >0.5). The dotted diagonal line represents y=x, or where identical CCF values across the two timepoints fall; the dotted parallel lines denote the 0.2 CCF interval on either side. Likely driver mutations were labeled. Six CLLs with no intervening treatment (A) and 12 CLLs with intervening treatment (B) were classified according to clonal evolution status, based on the presence of mutations with an increase of CCF > 0.2. (C) Hypothesized sequence of evolution, inferred from the patients' WBC counts, treatment dates, and changes in CCF for 3 representative examples. FIG. 16 shows genetic evolution and clonal heterogeneity results in altered clinical outcome. (A) Schema of the main clinical outcome measures that were analyzed: failure free survival from time of sample (FFS_Sample) and from initiation of first treatment after sampling (FFS_Rx). Within the longitudinally followed CLLs that received intervening treatment (12 of 18), shorter FFS_Rx was observed in CLL samples that (B) had evidence of genetic evolution (n=10) compared to samples with absent or minimal evolution (n=2; Fisher exact test), and that (C) harbored a detectable subclonal driver in the pretreatment sample (n=8) compared to samples with absent subclonal driver (n=4). FIGs. 17A-D show that the presence of subclonal drivers mutations adversely impacts clinical outcome. (A) Analysis of genetic evolution and clonal heterogeneity in 149 CLL samples. The top panel - the total number of mutations (lighter shade) and the number of subclonal mutations (darker shade) per sample. Bottom panel - co-occurring driver mutations (y-axis) are marked per individual CLL sample (x-axis). Rows - CLL or cancer drivers (sSNVs in highly conserved sites in Cancer Gene Census genes) detected in the 149 samples. Greyscale spectrum (near white to black) corresponds to estimated cancer cell fraction (CCF); white boxes - not detected; patterned - CCF not estimated (genes on the X chromosome and indels other than in NOTCH1). (B-C) Subclonal drivers are associated with adverse clinical outcome. (B) CLL samples containing a detectable subclonal driver (n=68) exhibited shorter FFS_Sample compared to samples with absent subclonal drivers (n=81) (also see FIG. 23). (C) Subclonal drivers were associated with shorter FFS_Rx in 67 samples which were treated after sampling. (D) A Cox multivariable regression model designed to test for prognostic factors contributing to shorter FFS_Rx showed that presence of a subclonal driver was an independent predictor of outcome. FIG. 18 shows a model for the stepwise transformation of CLL. The data provided herein indicate distinct periods in the life history of CLL. An increase in clonal mutations was observed in older patients and in the IGHV mutated subtype, likely corresponding to pre-transformation mutagenesis (A). Earlier and later mutations in CLL were identified, consistent with B cell-specific (B) and ubiquitous cancer events (C-D), respectively. Finally, clonal evolution and treatment show a complex relationship. Most untreated CLLs and a minority of treated CLLs maintain stable clonal equilibrium over years (C). However, in the presence of a subclone containing a strong driver, treatment may disrupt inter-clonal equilibrium and hasten clonal evolution (D). FIGs. 19A-S show significantly mutated genes in 160 CLL samples, related to FIG. 12. (A-S) Type (missense, splice-site, nonsense) and location of mutations in the significantly mutated genes discovered among the 160 CLL samples (top) compared to previously reported mutations in literature or in the COSMIC database (v76) (bottom). Dashed boxes in A, C, D, J, O and P indicate mutations localizing to a discrete gene territory. Please refer to previous publication for mutation information for FBXW7 (Wang et al., 2011) FIG. 20 shows mutation sites in 14 significantly mutated genes are localized to conserved regions of genes. Where available, alignments of gene sequences around each mutation are shown for human, mouse, zebrafish, C.elegans and S.pombe genes. The nucleotide sequences can be found at the website of USCS Genomic Bioinformatics. FIG. 21 shows the results of whole exome sequencing allelic fraction estimates. Estimates are consistent with deep sequencing and RNA sequencing measurements, related to FIG 13. (A) Comparison of ploidy estimates by ABSOLUTE with flow analyses for DNA content of 7 CLL samples and one normal B cell control (not analyzed by ABSOLUTE). Vertical lines indicate 95% confidence intervals of ploidy measurements by FACS. (B) Comparison of measurements of allelic fraction of 256 gene mutations detected by WES compared to detection using Fluidigm-based amplification following by deep sequencing (average 4200x coverage) using a MiSeq instrument. Significantly different estimates were assigned open circles. (C) Comparison of allelic fraction measured for 74 validated sites from 16 CLL samples by WES or RNA sequencing. (D) Comparison of mutational spectrum between subclonal and clonal sSNVs (detected in 149 CLLs). Rates were calculated as the fraction of the total number of sSNVs in the set with a particular mutation variant. FIG. 22 shows graphs depicting the co-occurrence of mutations, related to FIG. 14. The commonly occurring mutations, sorted in the order of decreasing frequency of affected. The top panel - the total number of mutations (lighter shade) and the number of subclonal mutations (darker shade) per sample. Bottom panel - co-occurring CLL driver events (y- axis) are marked per individual CLL sample (x-axis). Greyscale spectrum (near white to black) corresponds to CCF; white boxes - no driver mutation identified; patterned - mutations whose CCF was not estimated (i.e., mutations involving the X chromosome and indels other than in NOTCH1, currently not evaluated with ABSOLUTE). FIGs. 23A and B show the characterization of CLL clonal evolution through analysis of subclonal mutations at two timepoints in 18 patients, related to FIG. 15. (A-B) Unclustered results for 18 longitudinally studied CLLs, comparing CCF at two timepoints, * denotes a mutation with an increase in CCF greater than 0.2 (with probability >0.5). Six CLLs with no interval treatment (A) and 12 CLLs with intervening treatment (B) were classified as non-evolvers or evolvers, based on the presence of mutations with a statistically significant increase in CCF. (C) Deep sequencing validation of 6 of the 18 CLLs. For each set of samples, allelic frequency (AF) by WES (red) (with 95% CI by binofit shown by cross bars) is shown on the left and AF by deep sequencing (blue) (with 95% CI by binofit shown by cross bars) is shown on the right. Deep sequencing was performed to an average coverage of 4200x. (D) RNA pyro sequencing demonstrates a change in mRNA transcript levels that are consistent with changes in DNA allelic 4 frequencies. (E) Genetic changes correlate with transcript level of pre-defined gene sets expected to be altered as a result of the genetic lesion. These include change in expression level in the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) pathway gene set, expected to be increased in association with splicing abnormalities such as SF3B 1 mutations (data not shown). In addition, changes in expression level of the NRASQ61 gene set (data not shown) accompany the shift in allelic frequency for the NRAS mutations. FIG. 24 shows a series of graphs demonstrating that the presence of a subclonal driver is associated with shorter FFS_Sample when added to known clinical high risk indicators (related to FIG. 17). FFS_Sample plots of the patient groups based on presence or absence of a subclonal driver ('+/- SC driver') and their (A)IGHV mutation status; (B) exposure to prior therapy; (C) presence or absence of del(l lq) and (D) presence or absence of del(17p). DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION The invention is based, in part, upon the surprising discovery that patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who harbor mutations in the SF3B 1 gene and certain other genes demonstrate a significantly shorter time to first therapy, signifying a more aggressive disease course. This is particularly the case if such mutations are subclonal. Furthermore, a Cox multivariable regression model for clinical factors contributing to an earlier time to first therapy in a series of 91 CLL samples revealed that SF3B1 mutation was predictive of shorter time to requiring treatment, independent of other established predictive markers such as IGHV mutation, presence of del(17p) or ATM mutation. Accordingly, mutations in the SF3B1 and certain other genes are prognostic markers of disease aggressiveness in CLL patients. Ninety-one CLL samples, consisting of 88 exomes and 3 genomes, representing the broad clinical spectrum of CLL were analyzed. Nine driver genes in six distinct pathways involved in pathogenesis of this disease were identified. These driver genes were identified as TP53, ATM, MYD88, SF3B1, NOTCH1, DDX3X, ZMYM3, and FBXW7. Moreover, novel associations with prognostic markers that shed light on the biology underlying this clinically heterogeneous disease were discovered. These data led to several general conclusions. First, similar to other hematologic malignancies (Ley, Nature 2008;456:66-72), the somatic mutation rate is lower in CLL than in most solid tumors (Fabbri, J Exp Med, 2011; Puente, Nature, 2011). Second, the rate of non-synonymous mutation was not strongly affected by therapy. Third, in addition to expected mutations in cell cycle and DNA repair pathways, genetic alterations were found in Notch signaling, inflammatory pathways and RNA splicing and processing. Fourth, driver mutations showed striking associations with standard prognostic markers in CLL, suggesting that particular combinations of genetic alterations may cooperate to drive malignancy. A surprise was the finding that a core spliceosome component, SF3B1, is mutated in about 15% of CLL patients. Further analysis demonstrated that CLL samples with SF3B1 mutations displayed enhanced intron retention within two specific transcripts previously shown to be affected by compounds that disrupt SF3b spliceosome function (Kotake, Nat Chem Biol, 2007, 3:570-5; Kaida, Nat Chem Biol, 2007, 3:576-83). Studies of these compounds have suggested that rather than inducing a global change in splicing, SF3b inhibitors alter the splicing of a narrow spectrum of transcripts derived from genes involved in cancer-related processes, including cell-cycle control (p27, CCA2, STK6, MDM2) (Kaida, Nat Chem Biol, 2007, 3:576-83; Corrionero, Genes Dev 2011, 25:445-59; Fan, ACS Chem Biol, 2011) , angiogenesis, and apoptosis (Massiello, FASEB J, 2006, 20: 1680- 2). These results suggest that SF3B1 mutations induce mistakes in splicing of these and other specific transcripts that affect CLL pathogenesis. Since mutations in SF3B1 are highly enriched in patients with del(l lq), SF3B1 mutations may synergize with loss of ATM, a possibility further supported by the observation of 2 patients with point mutations in both ATM and SF3B 1 without del(l lq). The invention is further premised, in part, on the discovery of additional novel CLL drivers. These drivers include mutations in risk alleles HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. The invention is further based, in part, on the discovery of the significance and impact of subclonal mutations, and particularly subclonal driver mutations such as subclonal SFB1 mutation, including SF3B1, in CLL on disease progression. As shown in the Examples, presence of a subclonal driver mutation (or event) was predictive of the clinical course of CLL from first diagnosis and then following therapy. In both instances, patients with subclonal driver mutations (otherwise referred to herein as subclonal drivers for brevity) had poorer clinical course as compared to patients without subclonal drivers. This discovery indicates that CLL disease course and treatment regimens can be informed by an analysis of subclonal mutation at the time of first presentation but also throughout the disease progression including before and after treatment or simply at staged intervals even in the absence of treatment. Significantly, the data show and the invention contemplates that the impact of certain mutations will vary depending on whether the mutation is present in a clonal population of the CLL or a subclonal population. Certain mutations, when present in subclonal populations, were found to be better predictors of clinical course and outcome than if they were present in clonal populations. Prior to these findings, the effect of any given mutation, when present subclonally, on disease progression was not recognized. Thus, the invention allows subclonal mutation profiles in a subject to be determined, thereby resulting in a more targeted, personalized therapy. The invention contemplates that subclonal analysis can inform disease management and treatment including decisions such as whether to treat a subject (e.g., if a subclonal driver mutation is found), or whether to delay treatment and monitor the subject instead (e.g., if no subclonal driver mutation is found), when to treat a subject, how to treat a subject, and when to monitor a subject post-treatment for expected relapse. Prior to this disclosure, the impact of the frequency, identity and evolution of subclonal genetic alterations on clinical course was unknown. Subclonal mutations in one or more of SF3B 1, HIST 1H IE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, TP53, ATM, MYD88, NOTCH1, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, POTl, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12 are of interest in some embodiments. Analysis of a genomic DNA sample for the presence (or absence) of mutation in any one, any two, any three, any four, any five, any six, any seven, any eight, any nine, any ten, any eleven, or more of these genes is contemplated by the invention, in any combination. As described in the Examples in greater detail, Briefly, analysis of 160 matched CLL and germline DNA samples (including 82 of the 91 samples described above) was performed. These patients represented the broad spectrum of CLL clinical heterogeneity, and included patients with both low- and high-risk features based on established prognostic risk factors (ZAP70 expression, the degree of somatic hypermutation in the variable region of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGHV) gene, and presence of specific cytogenetic abnormalities). Somatic single nucleotide variations (sSNVs) present in as few as 10% of cancer cells were detected, and in total, 2,444 nonsynonymous and 837 synonymous mutations in protein-coding sequences were identified, corresponding to a mean (±SD) somatic mutation rate of 0.6+0.28 per megabase (range, 0.03 to 2.3), and an average of 15.3 nonsynonymous mutations per patient (range, 2 to 53). Expansion of the sample cohort provided the sensitivity to detect 20 putative CLL cancer genes (q<0. l). These included 8 of the 9 genes identified in the 91 CLL sample cohort described above (TP53, ATM, MYD88, SF3B 1, NOTCH1, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7). The 12 newly identified genes were mutated at lower frequencies, and hence were not detected in the subset of the 91 sequenced samples. Three of the 12 additional candidate driver genes were recently identified (XPOl, CHD2, and POTl) (Fabbri et al., J Exp Med. 208, 1389-1401(2011); Puente et al., Nature. 475, 101-105. (2011)). The 9 remaining genes, NRAS, KRAS, BCOR, EGR2, MED 12, RIPK1, SAMHD1, ITPKB, and HIST1H1E, represent additional novel candidate CLL drivers. Together, the 20 candidate CLL driver genes appear to fall into 7 core signaling pathways. Two new pathways were implicated by the analysis: B cell receptor signaling and chromatin modification. Because recurrent chromosomal abnormalities have defined roles in CLL biology (Dohner et al., N Engl J Med. 343, 1910-1916 (2000); Klein et al., Cancer Cell. 17, 28-40 (2010)), loci that were significantly amplified or deleted were searched by analyzing somatic copy- number alterations (sCNAs). Analysis of 111 matched tumor and normal samples identified deletions in chromosome 8p, 13q, 1 lq, and 17p and trisomy of chromosome 12 as significantly recurrent events. Thus, based on sSNV and sCNA analysis, 20 mutated genes and 5 cytogenetic alterations were identified as CLL driver events. Methods described herein were also used to determine whether the CLL driver events were clonal or subclonal. Overall, 1,543 clonal mutations (54% of all detected mutations, average of 10.3+5.5 mutations per sample) were identified, and a total of 1,266 subclonal sSNVs were detected in 146 of 149 samples (46%; average of 8.5+5.8 subclonal mutations per sample). Further analysis revealed that age and mutated IGHV status are associated with an increased number of clonal somatic mutations, subclonal mutations are increased with treatment, and the presence of subclonal driver mutations adversely impacts clinical outcome. CLL DISEASE PROGRESSION AND MANAGEMENT While generally considered incurable, CLL progresses slowly in most cases. Many people with CLL lead normal and active lives for many years— in some cases for decades. Because of its slow onset, early-stage CLL is, in general, not treated since it is believed that early CLL intervention does not improve survival time or quality of life. Instead, the condition is monitored over time to detect any change in the disease pattern. Traditionally, the decision to start CLL treatment is taken when the patient's clinical symptoms or blood counts indicate that the disease has progressed to a point where it may affect the patient's quality of life. Clinical 'staging systems' such as the Rai 4-stage system and the Binet classification can help to determine when and how to treat the patient (Dohner, N Engl J Med, 2000, 343: 1910-6). Determining when to start treatment and by what means is often difficult; studies have shown there is no survival advantage to treating the disease too early. The invention provided herein is useful in determining whether and when to start treatment. Accordingly, the invention provides methods of determining the aggressiveness of the disease course in subjects having or suspected of having CLL by identifying one or more mutations in the group consisting of SF3B1, NRAS, KRAS, BCOR, EGR2, MED 12, RIPK1, SAMHD1, ITPKB, and HIST1H1E in a subject. Mutations in such genes are considered to be drivers (referred to interchangeably as CLL drivers), intending that they play a central role in the survival and continued growth of CLL cells in a subject. In some aspects, the disclosure provides methods for determining the aggressiveness of the disease course in subjects having or suspected of having CLL by determining whether a CLL driver is clonal or subclonal. These methods are also useful for monitoring subjects undergoing treatments and therapies for CLL and for selecting therapies and treatments that would be efficacious in subjects having CLL, wherein selection and use of such treatments and therapies slow the progression of the cancer. More specifically, the invention provides methods of determining whether a patient with CLL will derive a clinical benefit of early treatment. Also included in the invention are methods of treating CLL by administering a compound that modulates the expression or activity of SF3B 1 , including compounds that activate or inhibit expression or activity of SF3B1. DEFINITIONS 'Accuracy' refers to the degree of conformity of a measured or calculated quantity (a test reported value) to its actual (or true) value. Clinical accuracy relates to the proportion of true outcomes (true positives (TP) or true negatives (TN) versus misclassified outcomes (false positives (FP) or false negatives (FN)), and may be stated as a sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive values (PPV) or negative predictive values (NPV), or as a likelihood, odds ratio, among other measures. 'Biomarker' in the context of the present invention encompasses, without limitation, proteins, nucleic acids, and metabolites, together with their polymorphisms, mutations, variants, modifications, subunits, fragments, protein-ligand complexes, and degradation products, protein-ligand complexes, elements, related metabolites, and other analytes or sample-derived measures. Biomarkers can also include mutated proteins or mutated nucleic acids. Biomarkers also encompass non-blood borne factors or non-analyte physiological markers of health status, such as 'clinical parameters' defined herein, as well as 'traditional laboratory risk factors', also defined herein. Biomarkers also include any calculated indices created mathematically or combinations of any one or more of the foregoing measurements, including temporal trends and differences. Where available, and unless otherwise described herein, biomarkers which are gene products are identified based on the official letter abbreviation or gene symbol assigned by the international Human Genome Organization Naming Committee (HGNC) and listed at the date of this filing at the US National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) web site. A 'CLL driver' is any mutation, chromosomal abnormality, or altered gene expression, that contributes to the etiology, progression, severity, aggressiveness, or prognosis of CLL. In some aspects, a CLL driver is a mutation that provides a selectable fitness advantage to a CLL cell and facilitates its clonal expansion in the population. CLL driver may be used interchangeably with CLL driver event and CLL driver mutation. CLL driver mutations occur in genes, genetic loci, or chromosomal regions which may be referred to herein interchangeably as CLL risk alleles, CLL alleles, CLL risk genes, CLL genes, CLL-associated genes and the like. The disclosure also refers to CLL-associated markers. Such markers may be those known in the art including for example ZAP expression status and IGHV mutation status. Such markers may also include those newly discovered and described herein. Accordingly, CLL-associated markers include CLL drivers, including subclonal CLL drivers, of the invention. Some CLL-associated markers have prognostic value and may be referred to as CLL prognostic markers. Some prognostic markers are referred to as independent prognostic markers intending that they can be used individually to assess prognosis of a patient. A 'clinical indicator' is any physiological datum used alone or in conjunction with other data in evaluating the physiological condition of a collection of cells or of an organism. This term includes pre-clinical indicators. 'Clinical parameters' encompasses all non-sample or non-analyte biomarkers of subject health status or other characteristics, such as, without limitation, age (Age), ethnicity (RACE), gender (Sex), or family history (FamHX). 'FN' is false negative, which for a disease state test means classifying a disease subject incorrectly as non-disease or normal. 'FP' is false positive, which for a disease state test means classifying a normal subject incorrectly as having disease. A 'formula,' 'algorithm,' or 'model' is any mathematical equation, algorithmic, analytical or programmed process, or statistical technique that takes one or more continuous or categorical inputs (herein called 'parameters') and calculates an output value, sometimes referred to as an 'index' or 'index value.' Non-limiting examples of 'formulas' include sums, ratios, and regression operators, such as coefficients or exponents, biomarker value transformations and normalizations (including, without limitation, those normalization schemes based on clinical parameters, such as gender, age, or ethnicity), rules and guidelines, statistical classification models, and neural networks trained on historical populations. Of particular use in combining biomarkers are linear and non-linear equations and statistical classification analyses to determine the relationship between biomarkers detected in a subject sample and the subject's responsiveness to chemotherapy. In panel and combination construction, of particular interest are structural and synactic statistical classification algorithms, and methods of risk index construction, utilizing pattern recognition features, including established techniques such as cross-correlation, Principal Components Analysis (PCA), factor rotation, Logistic Regression (LogReg), Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), Eigengene Linear Discriminant Analysis (ELD A), Support Vector Machines (SVM), Random Forest (RF), Recursive Partitioning Tree (RPART), as well as other related decision tree classification techniques, Shrunken Centroids (SC), StepAIC, Kth-Nearest Neighbor, Boosting, Decision Trees, Neural Networks, Bayesian Networks, Support Vector Machines, and Hidden Markov Models, among others. Other techniques may be used in survival and time to event hazard analysis, including Cox, Weibull, Kaplan-Meier and Greenwood models well known to those of skill in the art. Many of these techniques are useful as forward selection, backwards selection, or stepwise selection, complete enumeration of all potential panels of a given size, genetic algorithms, or they may themselves include biomarker selection methodologies in their own technique. These may be coupled with information criteria, such as Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) or Bayes Information Criterion (BIC), in order to quantify the tradeoff between additional biomarkers and model improvement, and to aid in minimizing overfit. The resulting predictive models may be validated in other studies, or cross-validated in the study they were originally trained in, using such techniques as Bootstrap, Leave-One-Out (LOO) and 10-Fold cross-validation (10-Fold CV). At various steps, false discovery rates may be estimated by value permutation according to techniques known in the art. A 'health economic utility function' is a formula that is derived from a combination of the expected probability of a range of clinical outcomes in an idealized applicable patient population, both before and after the introduction of a diagnostic or therapeutic intervention into the standard of care. It encompasses estimates of the accuracy, effectiveness and performance characteristics of such intervention, and a cost and/or value measurement (a utility) associated with each outcome, which may be derived from actual health system costs of care (services, supplies, devices and drugs, etc.) and/or as an estimated acceptable value per quality adjusted life year (QALY) resulting in each outcome. The sum, across all predicted outcomes, of the product of the predicted population size for an outcome multiplied by the respective outcome's expected utility is the total health economic utility of a given standard of care. The difference between (i) the total health economic utility calculated for the standard of care with the intervention versus (ii) the total health economic utility for the standard of care without the intervention results in an overall measure of the health economic cost or value of the intervention. This may itself be divided amongst the entire patient group being analyzed (or solely amongst the intervention group) to arrive at a cost per unit intervention, and to guide such decisions as market positioning, pricing, and assumptions of health system acceptance. Such health economic utility functions are commonly used to compare the cost-effectiveness of the intervention, but may also be transformed to estimate the acceptable value per QALY the health care system is willing to pay, or the acceptable cost-effective clinical performance characteristics required of a new intervention. For diagnostic (or prognostic) interventions of the invention, as each outcome (which in a disease classifying diagnostic test may be a TP, FP, TN, or FN) bears a different cost, a health economic utility function may preferentially favor sensitivity over specificity, or PPV over NPV based on the clinical situation and individual outcome costs and value, and thus provides another measure of health economic performance and value which may be different from more direct clinical or analytical performance measures. These different measurements and relative trade-offs generally will converge only in the case of a perfect test, with zero error rate (a.k.a., zero predicted subject outcome misclassifications or FP and FN), which all performance measures will favor over imperfection, but to differing degrees. 'Measuring' or 'measurement,' or alternatively 'detecting' or 'detection,' means assessing the presence, absence, quantity or amount (which can be an effective amount) of either a given substance within a clinical or subject-derived sample, including the derivation of qualitative or quantitative concentration levels of such substances, or otherwise evaluating the values or categorization of a subject's non-analyte clinical parameters. It is to be understood, as will be described in greater detail herein, that the analyzing and detecting steps of the invention are typically carried out using sequencing techniques including but not limited to nucleic acid arrays. Accordingly, analysis or detection, as referred to in the invention, generally depends upon the use of a device or a machine that transforms a nucleic acid into a visible rendering of its nucleic acid sequence in whole or in part. Such rendering may take the form of a computer read-out or output. In order for nucleic acid mutations to be detected, as provided herein, such nucleic acids must be extracted from their natural source and manipulated by devices or machines. 'Mutation' encompasses any change in a DNA, RNA, or protein sequence from the wild type sequence or some other reference, including without limitation point mutations, transitions, insertions, transversions, translocations, deletions, inversions, duplications, recombinations, or combinations thereof. A 'clonal mutation' is a mutation present in the majority of CLL cells in a CLL tumor or CLL sample. In some preferred embodiments, 'clonal mutation' is a mutation likely present in more than 0.95 (95%) of the cancer cells of a CLL sample, i.e. the cancer cell fraction of the mutation (CCF) > 0.95. In other words, there is a probability of greater than 50% that the mutation is present in more than 95% of the cancer cells. A 'subclonal mutation' is a mutation present in a single cell or a minority of cells in a CLL tumor or CLL sample. In some preferred aspects, a 'subclonal mutation' is a mutation that is unlikely to be present in more than 0.95 (95%) of the cancer cells of a CLL sample (i.e., there is a probability of greater than 50% that the mutation is present in less than 95% of the cancer cells). As will be appreciated, a 'clonal mutation' exists in the vast majority of cancer cells and while a 'sub-clonal mutation' is only in a fraction of the cancer cells. 'Negative predictive value' or 'NPV' is calculated by TN/(TN + FN) or the true negative fraction of all negative test results. It also is inherently impacted by the prevalence of the disease and pre-test probability of the population intended to be tested. See, e.g., O'Marcaigh AS, Jacobson RM, 'Estimating The Predictive Value Of A Diagnostic Test, How To Prevent Misleading Or Confusing Results,' Clin. Ped. 1993, 32(8): 485-491, which discusses specificity, sensitivity, and positive and negative predictive values of a test, e.g., a clinical diagnostic test. Often, for binary disease state classification approaches using a continuous diagnostic test measurement, the sensitivity and specificity is summarized by Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) curves according to Pepe et al., 'Limitations of the Odds Ratio in Gauging the Performance of a Diagnostic, Prognostic, or Screening Marker,' Am. J. Epidemiol 2004, 159 (9): 882-890, and summarized by the Area Under the Curve (AUC) or c-statistic, an indicator that allows representation of the sensitivity and specificity of a test, assay, or method over the entire range of test (or assay) cut points with just a single value. See also, e.g., Shultz, 'Clinical Interpretation Of Laboratory Procedures,' chapter 14 in Teitz, Fundamentals of Clinical Chemistry, Burtis and Ashwood (eds.), 4th edition 1996, W.B. Saunders Company, pages 192-199; and Zweig et al., 'ROC Curve Analysis: An Example Showing The Relationships Among Serum Lipid And Apolipoprotein Concentrations In Identifying Subjects With Coronory Artery Disease,' Clin. Chem., 1992, 38(8): 1425-1428. An alternative approach using likelihood functions, odds ratios, information theory, predictive values, calibration (including goodness-of-fit), and reclassification measurements is summarized according to Cook, 'Use and Misuse of the Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve in Risk Prediction,' Circulation 2007, 115: 928-935. Finally, hazard ratios and absolute and relative risk ratios within subject cohorts defined by a test are a further measurement of clinical accuracy and utility. Multiple methods are frequently used to defining abnormal or disease values, including reference limits, discrimination limits, and risk thresholds. 'Analytical accuracy' refers to the reproducibility and predictability of the measurement process itself, and may be summarized in such measurements as coefficients of variation, and tests of concordance and calibration of the same samples or controls with different times, users, equipment and/or reagents. These and other considerations in evaluating new biomarkers are also summarized in Vasan, 2006. 'Performance' is a term that relates to the overall usefulness and quality of a diagnostic or prognostic test, including, among others, clinical and analytical accuracy, other analytical and process characteristics, such as use characteristics (e.g., stability, ease of use), health economic value, and relative costs of components of the test. Any of these factors may be the source of superior performance and thus usefulness of the test, and may be measured by appropriate 'performance metrics,' such as AUC, time to result, shelf life, etc. as relevant. 'Positive predictive value' or 'PPV' is calculated by TP/(TP+FP) or the true positive fraction of all positive test results. It is inherently impacted by the prevalence of the disease and pre-test probability of the population intended to be tested. 'Risk' in the context of the present invention, relates to the probability that an event will occur over a specific time period, as in the responsiveness to treatment, cancer recurrence or survival and can mean a subject's 'absolute' risk or 'relative' risk. Absolute risk can be measured with reference to either actual observation post-measurement for the relevant time cohort, or with reference to index values developed from statistically valid historical cohorts that have been followed for the relevant time period. Relative risk refers to the ratio of absolute risks of a subject compared either to the absolute risks of low risk cohorts or an average population risk, which can vary by how clinical risk factors are assessed. Odds ratios, the proportion of positive events to negative events for a given test result, are also commonly used (odds are according to the formula p/(l-p) where p is the probability of event and (1- p) is the probability of no event) to no-conversion. 'Elevated risk' relates to an increased probability than an event will occur compared to another population. In the context of the present disclosure, 'a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression' refers to a CLL subject having an increased probability of rapid disease progression due to the presence of one or more mutations, including subclonal mutations, in a CLL risk allele, as compared to a CLL subject not having such mutation(s). 'Risk evaluation' or 'evaluation of risk' in the context of the present invention encompasses making a prediction of the probability, odds, or likelihood that an event or disease state may occur, the rate of occurrence of the event or conversion from one disease state. Risk evaluation can also comprise prediction of future clinical parameters, traditional laboratory risk factor values, or other indices of cancer, either in absolute or relative terms in reference to a previously measured population. The methods of the present invention may be used to make continuous or categorical measurements of the responsiveness to treatment thus diagnosing and defining the risk spectrum of a category of subjects defined as being responders or non-responders. In the categorical scenario, the invention can be used to discriminate between normal and other subject cohorts at higher risk for responding. Such differing use may require different biomarker combinations and individualized panels, mathematical algorithms, and/or cut-off points, but be subject to the same aforementioned measurements of accuracy and performance for the respective intended use. A 'sample' in the context of the present invention is a biological sample isolated from a subject and can include, by way of example and not limitation, tissue biopies, lymph node tissue, whole blood, serum, plasma, blood cells, endothelial cells, lymphatic fluid, ascites fluid, interstitial fluid (also known as 'extracellular fluid' and encompasses the fluid found in spaces between cells, including, inter alia, gingival crevicular fluid), bone marrow, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), saliva, mucous, sputum, sweat, urine, or any other secretion, excretion, or other bodily fluids. A 'sample' may include a single cell or multiple cells or fragments of cells. The sample is also a tissue sample. The sample is or contains a circulating endothelial cell or a circulating tumor cell. The sample includes a primary tumor cell, primary tumor, a recurrent tumor cell, or a metastatic tumor cell. 'CLL sample' refers to a sample taken from a subject having or suspected of having CLL, wherein the sample is believed to contain CLL cells if such cells are present in the subject. The CLL sample preferably contains white blood cells from the subject. 'Sensitivity' is calculated by TP/(TP+FN) or the true positive fraction of disease subjects. 'Specificity', as it relates to some aspects of the invention, is calculated by TN/(TN+FP) or the true negative fraction of non-disease or normal subjects. By 'statistically significant', it is meant that the alteration is greater than what might be expected to happen by chance alone (which could be a 'false positive'). Statistical significance can be determined by any method known in the art. Commonly used measures of significance include the p-value, which presents the probability of obtaining a result at least as extreme as a given data point, assuming the data point was the result of chance alone. A result is considered highly significant at a p-value of 0.05 or less. Preferably, the p-value is 0.04, 0.03, 0.02, 0.01, 0.005, 0.001 or less. A 'subject' in the context of the present invention is preferably a mammal. The mammal can be a human, non-human primate, mouse, rat, dog, cat, horse, or cow, but are not limited to these examples. Mammals other than humans can be advantageously used as subjects that represent animal models of cancer. A subject can be male or female. In some aspects, a subject is a mammal having or suspected of having CLL. Human subjects may be referred to herein as patients. 'TN' is true negative, which for a disease state test means classifying a non-disease or normal subject correctly. 'TP' is true positive, which for a disease state test means correctly classifying a disease subject. 'Traditional laboratory risk factors' correspond to biomarkers isolated or derived from subject samples and which are currently evaluated in the clinical laboratory and used in traditional global risk assessment algorithms. Traditional laboratory risk factors for tumor recurrence include for example Proliferative index, tumor infiltrating lymphocytes. Other traditional laboratory risk factors for tumor recurrence known to those skilled in the art. METHODS AND USES OF THE INVENTION The methods disclosed herein are used with subjects undergoing treatment and/or therapies for CLL, subjects who are at risk for developing a reoccurrence of CLL, and subjects who have been diagnosed with CLL. The methods of the present invention are to be used to monitor or select a treatment regimen for a subject who has CLL, and to evaluate the predicted survivability and/or survival time of a CLL-diagnosed subject. Aggressiveness of the disease course of CLL is determined by detecting a mutation in one or more of the driver genes provided herein, such as for example the SF3B 1 gene, in a test sample (e.g., a subject-derived sample). Optionally, the mutation in the SF3B1 gene occurs at nucleotides that provide coding sequence for the amino acid region between amino acids 550 to 1050 of a SF3B1 polypeptide. The mutation associated with an aggressive disease course includes for example one or more somatic mutations in the SF3B 1 gene leading to an amino acid substitution at positions 622, 625, 626, 659, 666, 700, 740, 741, 742 and 903 of the SF3B1 polypeptide. Specifically these mutations results in: glutamic acid to aspartic acid at 622 (E622D); an arginine to leucine or arginine to glycine at position 625 (R625L, R625G); an asparagine to histidine at position 626 (N626H) ; a glutamine to arginine at 656 (Q659R); a lysine to glutamine or lysine to glutamic acid at 666 (K666Q, K666E); a lysine to glutamic acid at position 700 (K700E); a glycine to glutamic acid at position 740 (G740E); a lysine to asparagine at position 741 (K741N); a glycine to aspartic acid at 742 (G742D); and/or a glutamine to arginine at position 903 (Q903R). These mutations associated with aggressiveness of disease course are referred to herein as the CLL/SF3B1 mutations. In analyzing 160 CLL samples, the K700E SF3B1 mutation was identified in 9 samples, the G742D mutation in four samples, and the following mutations were identified in one CLL sample: E622D, R625G, R625L, Q659R, K666E, G740E, K741N, and Q903R. See Table 1.1 for further details regarding the specific mutations identified in the cohort of 160 CLL samples. The presence of a CLL/SF3B1 mutation indicates a more aggressive disease course. Other mutations in the SF3B1 gene are also contemplated by the invention. Table 1.1 Entrez Genome Annotation cDNA Protein HugoJD Gene Chr Position Variant Pt_ID Change Transcript Change ID Change SF3B 1 23451 2 197973694 Mis g.chr2: 197973694T>C uc002uue.1 c.2708A>G P.Q903R CLL040 SF3B 1 23451 2 197974856 Mis g.chr2: 197974856C>T uc002uue.1 c.2225G>A p.G742D CLL007 SF3B 1 23451 2 197974856 Mis g.chr2: 197974856C>T uc002uue.1 c.2225G>A p.G742D CLL051 SF3B 1 23451 2 197974856 Mis g.chr2: 197974856C>T uc002uue.1 c.2225G>A p.G742D CLL096 SF3B 1 23451 2 197974856 Mis g.chr2: 197974856C>T uc002uue.1 c.2225G>A p.G742D CLL165 SF3B 1 23451 2 197974954 Mis g.chr2: 197974954C>A uc002uue.1 c.2223G>T p.K741N CLL084 SF3B 1 23451 2 197974958 Mis g.chr2: 197974958C>T uc002uue.1 c.2219G>A p.G740E CLL058 SF3B 1 23451 2 197975079 Mis g.chr2: 197975079T>C uc002uue.1 c.2098A>G p.K700E CLL032 SF3B 1 23451 2 197975079 Mis g.chr2: 197975079T>C uc002uue.1 c.2098A>G p.K700E CLL037 SF3B 1 23451 2 197975079 Mis g.chr2: 197975079T>C uc002uue.1 c.2098A>G p.K700E CLL043 SF3B 1 23451 2 197975079 Mis g.chr2: 197975079T>C uc002uue.1 c.2098A>G p.K700E CLL059 SF3B 1 23451 2 197975079 Mis g.chr2: 197975079T>C uc002uue.1 c.2098A>G p.K700E CLL061 SF3B 1 23451 2 197975079 Mis g.chr2: 197975079T>C uc002uue.1 c.2098A>G p.K700E CLL085 SF3B1 23451 2 197975079 Mis g.chr2:197975079T>C uc002uue.1 c.2098A>G p.K700E CLL101 SF3B1 23451 2 197975079 Mis g.chr2:197975079T>C uc002uue.1 c.2098A>G p.K700E CLL107 SF3B1 23451 2 197975079 Mis g.chr2:197975079T>C uc002uue.1 c.2098A>G p.K700E CLL115 SF3B1 23451 2 197975606 Mis g.chr2:197975606T>C uc002uue.1 c.l996A>G p.K666E CLL102 SF3B1 23451 2 197975606 Mis g.chr2:197975606T>G uc002uue.1 c.l996A>C P.K666Q CLL109 SF3B1 23451 2 197975626 Mis g.chr2:197975626T>C uc002uue.1 c.l976A>G P.Q659R CLL013 SF3B1 23451 2 197975728 Mis g.chr2:197975728C>A uc002uue.1 c.l874G>T p.R625L CLL060 SF3B1 23451 2 197975729 Mis g.chr2:197975729G>C uc002uue.1 c.l873C>G P.R625G CLL127 SF3B1 23451 2 197975736 Mis g.chr2:197975736C>G uc002uue.1 c.l866G>C p.E622D CLL169 In some aspects, aggressiveness of the CLL disease course, or identifying a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression, is determined by detecting a mutation in a test sample (e.g., a subject-derived sample) in one or more genes selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, and POT1, whether alone or in some combination with each other or with other mutations. In some important embodiments of the invention these driver events are subclonal. In some embodiments, the mutation in HIST1H1E is DV72del, R79H, A167V, P196S, and/or K202E. In some embodiments, the mutation in NRAS is Q61R, and/or Q61K. In some embodiments, the mutation in BCOR is a frame shift mutation at VI 32, T200, and/or P463, and/or a nonsense mutation at E1382. In some embodiments, the mutation in RIPK1 is A448V, K599R, R603S, and/or a nonsense mutation at Q375. In some embodiments, the mutation in SAMHD1 is M254I, R339S, I386S, and/or a frame shift mutation at R290. In some aspects, the mutation in KRAS is G13D, and/or Q61H. In some embodiments, the mutation in MED 12 is E33K, G44S, and/or A59P. In some embodiments, the mutation in ITPKB is a frame shift mutation at E207, and/or E584, and/or the mutation T626S. In some embodiments, the mutation in EGR2 is H384N. In some embodiments, the mutation in DDX3X is a nonsense mutation at S24, and/or a splicing mutation at K342, and/or a frame shift mutation at S410. In some embodiments, the mutation in ZMYM3 is Yl 113del, F1302S, and/or a frame shift mutation at S53, and/or a nonsense mutation at Q399. In some embodiments, the mutation in FBXW7 is F280L, R465H, R505C, and/or G597E. In some embodiments, the mutation in ATM is L120R, H2038R, E2164Q, Y2437S, Q2522H, Y2954C, A3006T, and/or a frame shift mutation at K468, L546, and/or L2135, and/or a splicing mutation at C1726, and/or a nonsense mutation at Y2817. In some embodiments, the mutation in TP53 occurs in the DNA binding domain (DBD) of TP53. In some embodiments the mutation in TP53 is LI 11R, N131del, R175H, H193P, I195T, H214R, I232F, C238S, C242F, R248Q, I255F, G266V, R267Q, R273C, R273H, R267Q, C275Y, D281N, and/or a splicing mutation at G187. In some embodiments, the mutation in MYD88 occurs in the Toll/Interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domain of MYD88. In some embodiments, the mutation in MYD88 is M219T, and or L252P. In some embodiments, the mutation in NOTCH 1 occurs in the glutamic acid/serine/threonine (PEST) domain of NOTCH 1. In some embodiments, the mutation in NOTCH1 is a nonsense mutation at Q2409, and/or a frame shift mutation at P2514. In some embodiments, the mutation in XPOl is E571K, E571A, and/or D624G. In some embodiments, the mutation in CHD2 is T645M, K702R, R836P, and/or a nonsense mutation at R1072, and/or a splicing mutation at 11427 and/or 11471. In some embodiments, the mutation in POTl is Y36H, D77G, R137C, and/or a nonsense mutation at Y73 and/or W194. These mutations associated with aggressiveness of disease course are referred to herein as CLL mutations and/or CLL drivers. In some embodiments, the presence of a CLL mutation indicates a more aggressive disease course, or identifies a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression. In some aspects, methods are provided for determining the aggressiveness of the disease course, or identifying a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression, by detecting in a test sample (e.g., a subject-derived sample) one or more chromosomal abnormalities including deletions in chromosome 8p, 13q, 1 lq, and 17p, and trisomy of chromosome 12, whether alone or in some combination with each other or with other mutations. In some important embodiments of the invention these driver events are subclonal. These chromosomal abnormalities are also referred to herein as CLL mutations and/or CLL drivers, and are associated with aggressiveness of disease course. In some embodiments, the presence of a CLL mutation such as a chromosomal abnormality indicates a more aggressive disease course, or identifies a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression. In some aspects, the disclosure provides methods for determining the aggressiveness of the disease course, or identifying a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression, in subjects having or suspected of having CLL by determining whether a mutation or a chromosomal abnormality in a CLL driver is clonal or subclonal. In some embodiments, the detection of a subclonal CLL mutation or chromosomal abnormality indicates a more aggressive disease course, or identifies a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression. In some embodiments, individual or combined subclonal CLL mutations are independent prognostic markers of CLL, and are used to determine a treatment regimen. For example, as shown in FIG. 17B, at 60 months post-sample, less than -35% of subjects identified as having a subclonal CLL mutation were alive without treatment, whereas greater than -60% of subjects identified as not having a subclonal CLL mutation were alive without treatment. Further, as shown in FIG. 17C, at 60 months following first therapy, less than -20% of subjects identified as having a subclonal CLL mutation were alive without retreatment, whereas greater than -55% of subjects identified as not having a subclonal CLL mutation were alive without retreatment. Thus the detection of a subclonal CLL mutation indicates a more rapid, or aggressive disease course, and informs decisions regarding treatment. In some aspects, the detection of a subclonal CLL driver mutation in a subject- derived sample identifies the subject as a subject requiring immediate treatment. In some aspects, the presence of a subclonal CLL mutation in a subject-derived sample identifies the subject as a subject requiring aggressive treatment. In some aspects, the detection of a CLL mutation, including a subclonal CLL mutation, in a subject-derived sample identifies the subject as a subject requiring alternative therapy. By an alternative therapy it is meant that the subject should be treated with a different or altered dose of a medicament, different combinations of medicaments, medicaments that work through varied mechanisms (including a mechanism that is different from that of a previous treatment), or the timing of treatment should be adjusted depending on the identification of a CLL mutation, including subclonal CLL mutations, and/or other clinical indicators. In some examples, alternative therapies are to be considered for subjects identified as having a CLL mutation, including subclonal CLL mutations, wherein the subject had previously been treated for CLL. In some aspects, methods are methods for determining the aggressiveness of the disease course, or identifying a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having cancer with rapid disease progression, by detecting mutations, and particularly subclonal mutations, in one or more (including two or more) risk alleles selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. The presence of a mutations, and particularly subclonal mutations, in two or more risk alleles indicates a more aggressive disease course. The presence of two or more subclonal driver mutations indicates a more aggressive disease course, or identifies a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression. In some aspects, methods are provided for determining the aggressiveness of the disease course, or identifying a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having cancer with rapid disease progression, by (i) detecting a mutation in one or more (including two or more) risk alleles group consisting of SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, and FBXW7; and (ii) detecting a mutation in one or more CLL drivers TP53, MYD88, NOTCHl, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), or trisomy 12. In some aspects, the method further comprises determining whether the mutations in the risk alleles in (i) and (ii) are clonal or subclonal. In some aspects, the presence of two or more subclonal driver mutations indicates a more aggressive disease course, or identifies a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression. In some aspects, methods are provided for determining the aggressiveness of the disease course, or identifying a subject as a subject at elevated risk of having cancer with rapid disease progression, by detecting a mutation in a CLL sample in one or more risk alleles selected from the group consisting SF3B1, HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCHl, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12, wherein mutations are detected in at least 2, at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at least 8, at least 9 or at least 10 risk alleles selected from the group consisting of HISTIHIE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2, and optionally SF3B 1. In some aspects the method further comprises determining whether the mutation is clonal or subclonal, and identifying the subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression if the mutation is a driver event and subclonal. The cell is for example a cancer cell. In all preferred embodiments, the cancer is leukemia such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). By a more aggressive disease course it is meant that the subject having CLL will need treatment earlier than in a CLL subject that does not have the mutation. The methods of the present invention are useful to treat, alleviate the symptoms of, monitor the progression of or delay the onset of cancer. Preferably, the methods of the present invention are used to identify and/or diagnose subjects who are asymptomatic for a cancer recurrence. 'Asymptomatic' means not exhibiting the traditional symptoms. The methods of the present invention are also useful to identify and/or diagnose subjects already at higher risk of developing a CLL. Identification of one or more mutations in the SF3B 1 gene and other CLL drivers identified herein allows for the determination of whether a subject will derive a benefit from a particular course of treatment, e.g. choice of treatment (i.e., more aggressive) or timing of treatment (e.g., earlier treatment). In this method, a biological sample is provided from a subject before undergoing treatment. Alternately, the sample is provides after a subject has undergone treatment. By 'derive a benefit' it is meant that the subject will respond to the course of treatment. By responding it is meant that the treatment decreases in size, prevalence, a cancer in a subject. When treatment is applied prophylactically, 'responding' means that the treatment retards or prevents a cancer recurrence from forming or retards, prevents, or alleviates a symptom. Assessments of cancers are made using standard clinical protocols. The invention also provides method of treating CLL by administering to the subject a compound that modulates (e.g., inhibits or activates) the expression or activity of SF3B1 in which patients harboring mutated SF3B1 may be more sensitive to this compound. The methods are useful to alleviate the symptoms of cancer. Any cancer containing a SF3B 1 mutation described herein is amenable to treatment by the methods of the invention. In some aspects the subject is suffering from CLL. Treatment is efficacious if the treatment leads to clinical benefit such as, a decrease in size, prevalence, or metastatic potential of the tumor in the subject. When treatment is applied prophylactically, 'efficacious' means that the treatment retards or prevents tumors from forming or prevents or alleviates a symptom of clinical symptom of the tumor. Efficaciousness is determined in association with any known method for diagnosing or treating the particular tumor type. In some aspects, methods of treating a subject are provided. In some examples, a method of treatment comprises administering to a subject a therapy (including a therapeutic agent (or medicament), radiation, or other procedures such as transplantation), wherein the subject is identified as having an unfavorable CLL prognosis based upon the detection of one or more CLL mutations, including subclonal mutations. Treatments or therapeutic agents contemplated by the present disclosure include but are not limited to immunotherapy, chemotherapy, bone marrow and stem cell transplantation, and others known in the art. In some examples, a subject-derived sample wherein a CLL mutation, including a subclonal CLL mutation, is detected, identifies the subject as requiring chemotherapy, wherein one or more of the following non-limiting chemotherapy regimens is administered to the subject: FC (fludarabine with cyclophosphamide), FR (fludarabine with rituximab), FCR (fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab), and CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone). In some examples, combination chemotherapy regimens are administered to a subject identified according to the methods described herein, in both newly-diagnosed and relapsed CLL. In some aspects, combinations of fludarabine with alkylating agents (cyclophosphamide) produce higher response rates and a longer progression-free survival than single agents. Alkylating agents include bendamustine and cyclophosphamide. In some examples, a subject-derived sample wherein a CLL mutation, including a subclonal CLL mutation, is detected, identifies the subject as requiring immunotherapy, wherein one or more of the following non-limiting immunotherapeutic agents is administered: alemtuzumab (Campath, MabCampath or Campath-1H), rituximab (Rituxan, MabThera) and ofatumumab (Arzerra, HuMax-CD20). In some examples, a subject-derived sample harboring a CLL mutation, including a subclonal CLL mutation, identifies the subject as requiring bone marrow and/or stem cell transplantation. In some examples, a subject is identified according to the methods provided herein and is indicated as requiring more aggressive therapies, including lenalidomide, flavopiridol, and bone marrow and/or stem cell transplantation. In some aspects, an aggressive treatment may comprise administering any therapeutic agent described herein or known in the art, either alone or in combination, and will depend upon individual patient characteristics and clinical indicators, as well the identification of prognostic markers as herein described. Other therapies contemplated include compounds that decrease expression or activity of SF3B1. A decrease in SF3B1 expression or activity can be defined by a reduction of a biological function of SF3B 1. A reduction of a biological function of SF3B 1 includes a decrease in splicing of a gene or a set of genes. Altered splicing of genes can be measured by detecting a certain gene or subset of genes that are known to be spliced by SF3b spliceosome complex, or SF3B1 in particular, by methods known in the art and described herein. For example, the genes are ROIK3 or BRD2. SF3B1 is measured by detecting by methods known in the art. SF3B1 modulators, including inhibitors, are known in the art or are identified using methods described herein. The SF3B1 inhibitor is for example splicostatin, E71707 or pladienolide. SF3B1 inhibitors alter splicing activity, for example, reduce, decrease or inhibit splicing. The invention further contemplates targeting of splice variants generated from mutated SF3B1, as a therapeutic target. For example, the impact of these splice variants may be reduced by targeting through inhibitory nucleic acid technologies such as siRNA and antisense. The present invention can also be used to screen patient or subject populations in any number of settings. For example, a health maintenance organization, public health entity or school health program can screen a group of subjects to identify those requiring interventions, as described above, or for the collection of epidemiological data. Insurance companies (e.g., health, life or disability) may screen applicants in the process of determining coverage or pricing, or existing clients for possible intervention. Data collected in such population screens, particularly when tied to any clinical progression to conditions like cancer, will be of value in the operations of, for example, health maintenance organizations, public health programs and insurance companies. Such data arrays or collections can be stored in machine-readable media and used in any number of health- related data management systems to provide improved healthcare services, cost effective healthcare, improved insurance operation, etc. See, for example, U.S. Patent Application No. 2002/0038227; U.S. Patent Application No. US 2004/0122296; U.S. Patent Application No. US 2004/ 0122297; and U.S. Patent No. 5,018,067. Such systems can access the data directly from internal data storage or remotely from one or more data storage sites as further detailed herein. Each program can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However, the programs can be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired. The language can be a compiled or interpreted language. Each such computer program can be stored on a storage media or device (e.g., ROM or magnetic diskette or others as defined elsewhere in this disclosure) readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer, for configuring and operating the computer when the storage media or device is read by the computer to perform the procedures described herein. The health-related data management system of the invention may also be considered to be implemented as a computer-readable storage medium, configured with a computer program, where the storage medium so configured causes a computer to operate in a specific and predefined manner to perform various functions described herein. Differences in the genetic makeup of subjects can result in differences in their relative abilities to metabolize various drugs, which may modulate the symptoms or risk factors of cancer or metastatic events. Subjects that have cancer, or at risk for developing cancer or a metastatic event can vary in age, ethnicity, and other parameters. Accordingly, detection of the CLL/SF3B1 and/or other CLL driver mutations disclosed herein, both alone and together in combination with known prognostic markers for CLL, allow for a predetermined level of predictability of the aggressiveness of the disease course and may impact on responsiveness to therapy. PERFORMANCE AND ACCURACY MEASURES OF THE INVENTION The performance and thus absolute and relative clinical usefulness of the invention may be assessed in multiple ways as noted above. Amongst the various assessments of performance, the invention is intended to provide accuracy in clinical diagnosis and prognosis. The accuracy of a diagnostic, predictive, or prognostic test, assay, or method concerns the ability of the test, assay, or method to distinguish between subjects responsive to chemotherapeutic treatment and those that are not, is based on whether the subjects have the one or more of the CLL/SF3B1 and/or other CLL driver mutations disclosed herein. In the categorical diagnosis of a disease state, changing the cut point or threshold value of a test (or assay) usually changes the sensitivity and specificity, but in a qualitatively inverse relationship. Therefore, in assessing the accuracy and usefulness of a proposed medical test, assay, or method for assessing a subject's condition, one should always take both sensitivity and specificity into account and be mindful of what the cut point is at which the sensitivity and specificity are being reported because sensitivity and specificity may vary significantly over the range of cut points. Use of statistics such as AUC, encompassing all potential cut point values, is preferred for most categorical risk measures using the invention, while for continuous risk measures, statistics of goodness-of- fit and calibration to observed results or other gold standards, are preferred. Using such statistics, an 'acceptable degree of diagnostic accuracy', is herein defined as a test or assay in which the AUC (area under the ROC curve for the test or assay) is at least 0.60, desirably at least 0.65, more desirably at least 0.70, preferably at least 0.75, more preferably at least 0.80, and most preferably at least 0.85. By a 'very high degree of diagnostic accuracy', it is meant a test or assay in which the AUC (area under the ROC curve for the test or assay) is at least 0.80, desirably at least 0.85, more desirably at least 0.875, preferably at least 0.90, more preferably at least 0.925, and most preferably at least 0.95. The predictive value of any test depends on the sensitivity and specificity of the test, and on the prevalence of the condition in the population being tested. This notion, based on Bayes' theorem, provides that the greater the likelihood that the condition being screened for is present in an individual or in the population (pre-test probability), the greater the validity of a positive test and the greater the likelihood that the result is a true positive. Thus, the problem with using a test in any population where there is a low likelihood of the condition being present is that a positive result has limited value (i.e., more likely to be a false positive). Similarly, in populations at very high risk, a negative test result is more likely to be a false negative. As a result, ROC and AUC can be misleading as to the clinical utility of a test in low disease prevalence tested populations (defined as those with less than 1% rate of occurrences (incidence) per annum, or less than 10% cumulative prevalence over a specified time horizon). Alternatively, absolute risk and relative risk ratios as defined elsewhere in this disclosure can be employed to determine the degree of clinical utility. Populations of subjects to be tested can also be categorized into quartiles by the test's measurement values, where the top quartile (25% of the population) comprises the group of subjects with the highest relative risk for therapeutic unresponsiveness, and the bottom quartile comprising the group of subjects having the lowest relative risk for therapeutic unresponsiveness. Generally, values derived from tests or assays having over 2.5 times the relative risk from top to bottom quartile in a low prevalence population are considered to have a 'high degree of diagnostic accuracy,' and those with five to seven times the relative risk for each quartile are considered to have a 'very high degree of diagnostic accuracy.' Nonetheless, values derived from tests or assays having only 1.2 to 2.5 times the relative risk for each quartile remain clinically useful are widely used as risk factors for a disease; such is the case with total cholesterol and for many inflammatory biomarkers with respect to their prediction of future events. Often such lower diagnostic accuracy tests must be combined with additional parameters in order to derive meaningful clinical thresholds for therapeutic intervention, as is done with the aforementioned global risk assessment indices. A health economic utility function is yet another means of measuring the performance and clinical value of a given test, consisting of weighting the potential categorical test outcomes based on actual measures of clinical and economic value for each. Health economic performance is closely related to accuracy, as a health economic utility function specifically assigns an economic value for the benefits of correct classification and the costs of misclassification of tested subjects. As a performance measure, it is not unusual to require a test to achieve a level of performance which results in an increase in health economic value per test (prior to testing costs) in excess of the target price of the test. In general, alternative methods of determining diagnostic accuracy are commonly used for continuous measures, when a disease category or risk category has not yet been clearly defined by the relevant medical societies and practice of medicine, where thresholds for therapeutic use are not yet established, or where there is no existing gold standard for diagnosis of the pre-disease. For continuous measures of risk, measures of diagnostic accuracy for a calculated index are typically based on curve fit and calibration between the predicted continuous value and the actual observed values (or a historical index calculated value) and utilize measures such as R squared, Hosmer- Lemeshow P-value statistics and confidence intervals. It is not unusual for predicted values using such algorithms to be reported including a confidence interval (usually 90% or 95% CI) based on a historical observed cohort's predictions, as in the test for risk of future breast cancer recurrence commercialized by Genomic Health, Inc. (Redwood City, California). DETECTION OF THE CLL/SF3B1 AND CLL DRIVER MUTATIONS Detection of the SF3B1 mutations and/or other CLL driver mutations can be determined at the protein or nucleic acid level using any method known in the art. Preferred SF3B1 mutations and/or CLL driver mutations of the invention are missense mutations, for example, R625L, N626H, K700E, K741N, G740E, E622D, R625G, Q659R, K666Q, K666E, G742D, or Q903R in SF3B1. Suitable sources of the nucleic acids encoding SF3B 1 include, for example, the human genomic SF3B 1 nucleic acid, available as GenBank Accession No: NG_032903.1, the SF3B1 mRNA nucleic acid available as GenBank Accession Nos: NM_001005526.1 and NM_012433.2, and the human SF3B1 protein, available as GenBank Accession Nos: NP_036565.2 and NP_001005526.1. Suitable sources of the nucleic acids and proteins for the following CLL drivers may be found in Table 1.2: NRAS, KRAS, BCOR, EGR2, MED 12, RIPK1, SAMHD1, ITPKB, HIST1H1E, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, and POT1. Table 1.2 GenBank GenBank Accession No, GenBank Accession Accession No, Gene genomic No, mRNA protein N RAS NG. _007572.1 NM _002524.4 NP_002515.1 NM _004985.3; NP_004976.2; KRAS NG. _007524.1 NM. _033360.2 NP_203524.1 NM. _001123383.1 NP_001116855.1; NM. _001123384.1 NP_001116856.1; NM. _001123385.1 NP_001116857.1; BCOR NG. _008880.1 NM. _017745.5 NP_060215.4 NM. _000399.3 ; NP_000390.2; NM. _001136177.1 NP_001129649.1; NM. _001136178.1, NP_001129650.1; EGR2 NG 008936.2 NM 001136179.1 NP 001129651.1 MED12 NG. _012808.1 NM. _005120.2 NP_005111.2 NC_ _000006.11; AC_ 000138.1; RIPK1 NC_ _018917.1 NM. _003804.3 NP_003795.2 SAMHD1 NG 017059.1 N M 015474.3 NP 056289.2 NC_ _000001.10 ; AC_ 000133.1; ITPKB NC_ _018912.1 NM. _002221.3 NP_002212.3 NC_ _000006.11; AC_ 000138.1; HISTH1E NC_ _018917.1 NM. _005321.2 NP_005312.1 ATM NG. _009830.1 NM. _000051.3 NP_000042.3 NM. _000546.5; NP_000537.3; NM. _001126112.2 NP_001119584.1; NM. _001126113.2 NP_001119585.1; NM. _001126114.2 NP_001119586.1; NM. _001126115.1 NP_001119587.1; NM. _001126116.1 NP_001119588.1; NM. _001126117.1 NP_001119589.1; TP53 NG. _017013.2 NM. _001126118.1 NP_001119590.1 NM. _001172566.1 NP_001166037.1; NM. _001172567.1 NP_001166038.1; NM. _001172568.1 NP_001166039.1; NM. _001172569.1 NP_001166040.1; MYD88 NG. _016964.1 NM. _002468.4 NP_002459.2 NOTCH 1 NG. _007458.1 NM. _017617.3 NP_060087.3 NM. _001193416.1 NP_001180345.1; NM. _001193417.1 NP_001180346.1; DDX3X NG. _012830.1 NM. _001356.3 NP_001347.3 NM. _001171162.1 NP_001164633.1; NM. _001171163.1 NP_001164634.1; NM. _005096.3; NP_005087.1; ZMYM3 NG 016407.1 NM 201599.2 NP 963893.1 NM. _001013415.1 NP_001013433.1; NM. _001257069.1 NP_001243998.1; NM. _018315.4; NP_060785.2; FBXW7 NG 029466.1 NM 033632.3 NP 361014.1 NC_ _000002.11; AC_ 000134.1; XPOl NC_ _018913.1 NM. _003400.3 NP_003391.1 NM. _001042572.2 NP_001036037.1; CHD2 NG 012826.1 NM 001271.3 NP 001262.3 NM. _001042594.1 NP_001036059.1; POT1 NG. _029232.1 NM. _015450.2 NP_056265.2 NM. _002745.4; NP_002736.3; MAPK1 NG. _023054.1 NM. _138957.2 NP_620407.1 SF3B1 mutation- specific reagents and/or CLL driver mutation- specific reagents useful in the practice of the disclosed methods include nucleic acids (polynucleotides) and amino acid based reagents such as proteins (e.g., antibodies or antibody fragments) and peptides. SF3B1 mutation- specific reagents and/or CLL driver mutation- specific reagents useful in the practice of the disclosed methods include, among others, mutant polypeptide specific antibodies and AQUA peptides (heavy-isotope labeled peptides) corresponding to, and suitable for detection and quantification of, mutant polypeptide expression in a biological sample. A mutant polypeptide-specific reagent is any reagent, biological or chemical, capable of specifically binding to, detecting and/or quantifying the presence/level of expressed mutant polypeptide in a biological sample, while not binding to or detecting wild type. The term includes, but is not limited to, the preferred antibody and AQUA peptide reagents discussed below, and equivalent reagents are within the scope of the present invention. The mutation- specific reagents specifically recognize SF3B1 with missense mutations, for example, a SF3B1 polypeptide with mutations at R625L, N626H, K700E, K741N, G740E, E622D, R625G, Q659R, K666Q, K666E, G742D or Q903R. In some aspects, the mutation-specific reagents specifically recognize CLL driver mutations, including but not limited to mutations in HIST 1H IE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ΓΓΡΚΒ, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. Reagents suitable for use in practice of the methods of the invention include a mutant polypeptide-specific antibody. A mutant- specific antibody of the invention is an isolated antibody or antibodies that specifically bind(s) a mutant polypeptide of the invention, but does not substantially bind either wild type or mutants with mutations at other positions. Mutant- specific reagents provided by the invention also include nucleic acid probes and primers suitable for detection of a mutant polynucleotide. These probes are used in assays such as fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. These mutant- specific reagents specifically recognize or detect nucleic acids encoding a mutant SF3B1 polypeptide, wherein the mutations are at R625L, N626H, K700E, K741N, G740E, E622D, R625G, Q659R, K666Q, K666E, G742D or Q903R. In some aspects, the mutation-specific reagents specifically recognize other CLL driver mutations, including but not limited to mutations in HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. Mutant polypeptide- specific reagents useful in practicing the methods of the invention may also be mRNA, oligonucleotide or DNA probes that can directly hybridize to, and detect, mutant or truncated polypeptide expression transcripts in a biological sample. Briefly, and by way of example, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded patient samples may be probed with a fluorescein-labeled RNA probe followed by washes with formamide, SSC and PBS and analysis with a fluorescent microscope. Polynucleotides encoding the mutant polypeptide may also be used for diagnostic/prognostic purposes. The polynucleotides that may be used include oligonucleotide sequences, antisense RNA and DNA molecules. The polynucleotides may be used to detect and quantitate gene expression in biopsied tissues, for example the expression of the S3FB1 gene and/or other CLL genes. For example, the diagnostic assay may be used to distinguish between absence, presence, and increased or excess expression of nucleic acids encoding the mutant polypeptide, and to monitor regulation of mutant polypeptide levels during therapeutic intervention. In one preferred embodiment, hybridization with PCR probes which are capable of detecting polynucleotide sequences, including genomic sequences, encoding mutant polypeptide or truncated active polypeptide, or closely related molecules, may be used to identify nucleic acid sequences which encode mutant polypeptide. The construction and use of such probes is described above. The specificity of the probe, whether it is made from a highly specific region, e.g., 10 unique nucleotides in the mutant junction, or a less specific region, e.g., the 3' coding region, and the stringency of the hybridization or amplification (maximal, high, intermediate, or low) will determine whether the probe identifies only naturally occurring sequences encoding mutant SF3B 1 and/or other CLL mutant polypeptides, alleles, or related sequences. Probes may also be used for the detection of related sequences, and should preferably contain at least 50% of the nucleotides from any of the mutant polypeptide encoding sequences. The hybridization probes of the subject invention may be DNA or RNA and derived from the nucleotide sequence and encompassing the mutation, or from genomic sequence including promoter, enhancer elements, and introns of the naturally occurring polypeptides but comprising the mutation. A mutant polynucleotide may be used in Southern or Northern analysis, dot blot, or other membrane-based technologies; in PCR technologies; or in dip stick, pin, ELISA or chip assays utilizing fluids or tissues from patient biopsies to detect altered polypeptide expression. Such qualitative or quantitative methods are well known in the art. Mutant polynucleotides may be labeled by standard methods, and added to a fluid or tissue sample from a patient under conditions suitable for the formation of hybridization complexes. After a suitable incubation period, the sample is washed and the signal is quantitated and compared with a standard value. If the amount of signal in the biopsied or extracted sample is significantly altered from that of a comparable control sample, the nucleotide sequences have hybridized with nucleotide sequences in the sample, and the presence of altered levels of nucleotide sequences encoding mutant polypeptide in the sample indicates the presence of the associated disease. Such assays may also be used to evaluate the efficacy of a particular therapeutic treatment regimen in animal studies, in clinical trials, or in monitoring the treatment of an individual patient. In order to provide a basis for the diagnosis of disease characterized by expression of mutant polypeptide, a normal or standard profile for expression is established. This may be accomplished by combining body fluids or cell extracts taken from normal subjects, either animal or human, with a sequence, or a fragment thereof, which encodes mutant polypeptide, under conditions suitable for hybridization or amplification. Standard hybridization may be quantified by comparing the values obtained from normal subjects with those from an experiment where a known amount of a substantially purified polynucleotide is used. Standard values obtained from normal samples may be compared with values obtained from samples from patients who are symptomatic for disease. Deviation between standard and subject values is used to establish the presence of disease. Once disease is established and a treatment protocol is initiated, hybridization assays may be repeated on a regular basis to evaluate whether the level of expression in the patient begins to approximate that which is observed in the normal patient. The results obtained from successive assays may be used to show the efficacy of treatment over a period ranging from several days to months. Additional diagnostic uses for mutant polynucleotides of the invention may involve the use of polymerase chain reaction (PCR), a preferred assay format that is standard to those of skill in the art. See, e.g., MOLECULAR CLONING, A LABORATORY MANUAL, 2nd edition, Sambrook, J., Fritsch, E. F. and Maniatis, T., eds., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1989). PCR oligomers may be chemically synthesized, generated enzymatically, or produced from a recombinant source. Oligomers will preferably consist of two nucleotide sequences, one with sense orientation (5' to 3') and another with antisense (3' to 5'), employed under optimized conditions for identification of a specific gene or condition. The same two oligomers, nested sets of oligomers, or even a degenerate pool of oligomers may be employed under less stringent conditions for detection and/or quantitation of closely related DNA or RNA sequences. In certain preferred embodiments, sequencing technologies, including but not limited to whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing (WES), deep sequencing, and targeted gene sequencing, are used to detect, measure, or analyze a sample for the presence of a CLL mutation. WGS (also known as full genome sequencing, complete genome sequencing, or entire genome sequencing), is a process that determines the complete DNA sequence of a subject. In some aspects, WGS, as embodied in the methods of Ng and Kirkness, Methods Mol Biol. ;628:215-26 (2010), may be employed with the methods of the present disclosure to detect CLL mutations in a sample. WES (also known as exome sequencing, or targeted exome capture), is an efficient strategy to selectively sequence the coding regions of the genome of a subject as a cheaper but still effective alternative to WGS. As exemplified by the methods of Gnirke et al., Nature Biotechnology 27, 182 - 189 (2009), WES of tumors and their patient-matched normal samples is an affordable, rapid and comprehensive technology for detecting somatic coding mutations. In some aspects, WES may be employed with the methods of the present disclosure to detect CLL mutations in a sample. Deep sequencing methods provide for greater coverage (depth) in targeted sequencing approaches. 'Deep sequencing,' 'deep coverage,' or 'depth' refers to having a high amount of coverage for every nucleotide being sequenced. The high coverage allows not only the detection of nucleotide changes, but also the degree of heterogeneity at every single base in a genetic sample. Moreover, deep sequencing is able to simultaneously detect small indels and large deletions, map exact breakpoints, calculate deletion heterogeneity, and monitor copy number changes. In some aspects, deep sequencing strategies, as provided by Myllykangas and Ji, Biotechnol Genet Eng Rev. 27: 135-58 (2010), may be employed with the methods of the present disclosure to detect CLL mutations in a sample. In preferred embodiments, sequencing technologies, including but not limited to whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing (WES), deep sequencing, and targeted gene sequencing, as described herein, are used to determine whether a CLL mutation in a sample is clonal or subclonal. In some examples, WES of tumors and their patient-matched normal samples combined with analytical tools provides for analysis of subclonal mutations because: (i) the high sequencing depth obtained by WES (typically -100-150X) enables reliable detection of a sufficient number of subclonal mutations required for defining subclones and tracking them over time; (ii) coding mutations likely encompass many of the important driver events that provide fitness advantage for specific clones; and finally, (iii) the relatively low cost of whole-exome sequencing permits studies of large cohorts, which is key for understanding the relative fitness and temporal order of driver mutations and for assessing the impact of clonal heterogeneity on disease outcome. WES thus allows for identification of CLL subclones and the mutations that they harbor by integrative analysis of coding mutations and somatic copy number alterations, which enable estimation of the cancer cell fraction (CCF). WES analysis further provides for the study of mutation frequencies, observation of clonal evolution, and linking of subclonal mutations to clinical outcome. In some examples, the sequencing data generated using sequencing technologies is processed using analytical tools including but not limited to the Picard data processing pipeline (DePristo et al., Nat Genet. 43, 491-498 (2011)), the Firehose pipeline available at The Broad Institute, Inc. website, MutSig available at The Broad Institute, Inc. website, HAPSEG (Carter et al., Available from Nature Preceedings), GISTIC2.0 algorithm (Mermel et al., Genome Biol.l2(4):R41 (2011)), and ABSOLUTE available at The Broad Institute, Inc. website. Such analytical tools allow for, in some examples, the identification of sSNVs, sCNAs, indels, and other structural chromosomal rearrangements, and provide for the determination of sample purity, ploidy, and absolute somatic copy numbers. In some examples, the use of analytical tools with sequencing data obtained from a CLL sample allows for the determination of the cancer cell fraction (CCF) harboring a mutation, thus identifying whether a mutation is clonal or subclonal. Methods which may also be used to quantitate the expression of mutant polynucleotide include radiolabeling or biotinylating nucleotides, coamplification of a control nucleic acid, and standard curves onto which the experimental results are interpolated (Melby et al., J. Immunol. Methods, 159:235-244 (1993); Duplaa et al. Anal. Biochem. 229-236 (1993)). The speed of quantitation of multiple samples may be accelerated by running the assay in an ELISA format where the oligomer of interest is presented in various dilutions and a spectrophotometric or calorimetric response gives rapid quantitation. Other suitable methods for nucleic acid detection, such as minor groove -binding conjugated oligonucleotide probes (see, e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6,951,930, 'Hybridization- Triggered Fluorescent Detection of Nucleic Acids') are known to those of skill in the art. Also provided by the invention is a kit for the detection of the mutation in a biological sample, the kit comprising an isolated mutant- specific reagent of the invention and one or more secondary reagents. Suitable secondary reagents for employment in a kit are familiar to those of skill in the art, and include, by way of example, buffers, detectable secondary antibodies or probes, activating agents, and the like. In some aspects, a kit is provided for the detection of a mutation in a biological sample, the kit comprising isolated mutant- specific reagents for the detection of a mutation in one or more CLL drivers in the group consisting of SF3B1, NRAS, KRAS, BCOR, EGR2, MED 12, RIPKl, SAMHDl, ITPKB, HISTIHIE, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCHl, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. In some aspects, the kit further comprises reagents for evaluating the degree of somatic hypermutation in the IGHV gene; and reagents for evaluating the expression status of ZAP70. In some aspects, a kit is provided for the detection of a mutation in a biological sample, the kit comprising mutant- specific reagents comprising mutant- specific antibodies that specifically bind a mutant polypeptide encoded by a CLL gene, but does not substantially bind either wild type or mutants with mutations at other positions. Such antibodies are used in assays such as immunohistochemistry (IHC), ELISA, and flow cytometry assays such as fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS). In some aspects, a kit is provided for the detection of a mutation in a biological sample, the kit comprising mutant- specific reagents comprising nucleic acid probes and primers suitable for detection of a CLL mutation. These probes are used in assays such as fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. These mutant- specific reagents specifically recognize or detect nucleic acids of a CLL driver in a biological sample. In some aspects, a kit is provided for the detection of a mutation in a biological sample, the kit comprising mutant- specific reagents comprising mRNA, oligonucleotide or DNA probes that can directly hybridize to, and detect, mutant or truncated expression transcripts off a CLL driver, or directly hybridize to and detect chromosomal abnormalities in a biological sample. In some aspects, a kit is provided for the detection of a mutation in a biological sample, the kit comprising a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array that detects one or more mutations in a CLL gene. In some aspects, a kit is provided for the detection of a mutation in a biological sample, the kit comprising mutant- specific reagents for the detection of one or more mutations in one or more CLL drivers using sequencing methods such as whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing, deep sequencing, targeted sequencing of cancer genes, or any combination thereof, as described herein. In preferred embodiments, any kit described herein further comprises instructions for use. The methods of the invention may be carried out in a variety of different assay formats known to those of skill in the art. OTHER CLINICAL INDICATORS Other clinical indicators that are useful for diagnosing, prognosing, or evaluating a subject with CLL for determining treatment regimens or predicting survival are known in the art. These other clinical indicators are referred to herein as 'CLL biomarkers' or CLL- associated markers and include, for example, but are not limited to mutations in CLL- associated genes, increased expression of CLL-associated genes, chromosomal rearrangements, and micro-RNAs. These other clinical indicators can also be used in methods of the present invention in combination with identifying a SF3B 1 and/or CLL driver mutation. Other biomarkers associated with CLL that may be used in the methods described herein include, for example, mutated IGHV, increased expression of ZAP70, increased levels of 2-microglobulin, increased levels of enzyme sTK, increased CD38 expression, and increased levels of Ang-2. Other genes that are known in the art to be indicative or prognostic of CLL initiation, progression or response to treatment can also be used in the present invention. Polynucledotides encoding these biomarkers or the polypeptides of the CLL biomarkers disclosed herein can be detected or the levels can be determined by methods known in the art and described herein. For example, the mutational status of IGHV can be assessed by various DNA sequencing methods known in the art, such as Sanger sequencing. In other embodiments, CD38 and ZAP70 expression levels can be assessed by flow cytometry. Other CLL biomarkers can include various chromosomal abnormalities, such as l lq deletion, 17p deletion, Trisomy 12, 13q deletion, monosomy 13, and rearrangements of chromosome 14. Other chromosomal rearrangements, amplifications, deletions, or other abnormalities can also be used in the methods described herein. Particularly of interest are chromosomal abnormalities, rearrangements, or deletions that affect p53 or ATM function, wherein p53 and/or ATM function is decreased or inhibited. Methods for identifying chromosomal status are well known in the art. For example, fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) can be utilized to detect chromosomal abnormalities. Additional clinical indicators for CLL include lymphocyte doubling time, which can be calculated by determining the number of months it takes for the absolute lymphocyte count to double in number. Another clinical indicator for CLL includes atypical circulating lymphocytes in the blood, wherein the lymphocytes show abnormal nuclei (such as cleaved or lobated), irregular nuclear contours, or enlarged size. THE APEUTIC ADMINISTRATION The invention includes administering to a subject compositions comprising an SF3B 1 modulator such as an inhibitor. SF3B 1 modulators such as inhibitors alter splicing activity, for example, reduce, decrease, increase, activate or inhibit the biological function of SF3B1, such as splicing. SF3B1 inhibitors can be readily identified by an ordinarily skilled artisan by assaying for altered SF3B1 activity, i.e., splicing. Altered splicing of genes can be measured by detecting a certain gene or subset of genes that are known to be spliced by SF3b spliceosome complex, or SF3B 1 in particular, by methods known in the art and described herein. For example, the genes are ROIK3 or BRD2. Other therapeutic regimens are contemplated by the invention as described above. An effective amount of a therapeutic compound is preferably from about 0.1 mg/kg to about 150 mg/kg. Effective doses vary, as recognized by those skilled in the art, depending on route of administration, excipient usage, and coadministration with other therapeutic treatments including use of other anti-proliferative agents or therapeutic agents for treating, preventing or alleviating a symptom of a cancer. A therapeutic regimen is carried out by identifying a mammal, e.g., a human patient suffering from a cancer that has a SF3B1 mutation using standard methods. The pharmaceutical compound is administered to such an individual using methods known in the art. Preferably, the compound is administered orally, rectally, nasally, topically or parenterally, e.g., subcutaneously, intraperitoneally, intramuscularly, and intravenously. The modulators (such as inhibitors) are optionally formulated as a component of a cocktail of therapeutic drugs to treat cancers. Examples of formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of the active agent in an isotonic saline solution, a 5% glucose solution, or another standard pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. Standard solubilizing agents such as PVP or cyclodextrins are also utilized as pharmaceutical excipients for delivery of the therapeutic compounds. The therapeutic compounds described herein are formulated into compositions for other routes of administration utilizing conventional methods. For example, the therapeutic compounds are formulated in a capsule or a tablet for oral administration. Capsules may contain any standard pharmaceutically acceptable materials such as gelatin or cellulose. Tablets may be formulated in accordance with conventional procedures by compressing mixtures of a therapeutic compound with a solid carrier and a lubricant. Examples of solid carriers include starch and sugar bentonite. The compound is administered in the form of a hard shell tablet or a capsule containing a binder, e.g., lactose or mannitol, conventional filler, and a tableting agent. Other formulations include an ointment, suppository, paste, spray, patch, cream, gel, resorbable sponge, or foam. Such formulations are produced using methods well known in the art. Therapeutic compounds are effective upon direct contact of the compound with the affected tissue. Accordingly, the compound is administered topically. Alternatively, the therapeutic compounds are administered systemically. For example, the compounds are administered by inhalation. The compounds are delivered in the form of an aerosol spray from pressured container or dispenser which contains a suitable propellant, e.g., a gas such as carbon dioxide, or a nebulizer. Additionally, compounds are administered by implanting (either directly into an organ or subcutaneously) a solid or resorbable matrix which slowly releases the compound into adjacent and surrounding tissues of the subject. EXAMPLES Example 1. General Methods Human Samples Heparinized blood samples and skin biopsies were obtained from normal donors and patients enrolled on clinical research protocols that were approved by the Human Subjects Protection Committee at the Dana- Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI). In some cases, 2 ml of saliva was collected from study participants as a source of normal epithelial cell DNA. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from normal donors and patients were isolated by Ficoll/Hypaque density gradient centrifugation. CD 19+ B cells from normal volunteers were isolated by immunomagnetic selection (Miltenyi Biotec, Auburn CA). Mononuclear cells were used fresh or cryopreserved with FBS 10% DMSO and stored in vapor-phase liquid nitrogen until the time of analysis. Primary skin fibroblast lines were generated from five mm diameter punch biopsies of skin that were provided to the Cell Culture Core lab of the Harvard Skin Disease Research Center, as previously described (Zhang, Clin Cancer Res 2010;16:2729-39). Second or third passage cultures were used for genomic DNA isolation. Prognostic factor analysis. Immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IGHV) homology (high risk unmutated was defined as greater than or equal to 98% homology to the closest germline match) and ZAP-70 expression (high risk positive defined as >20%) were determined as previously described (Rassenti, N Engl J Med, 2004, 351:893-901). Cytogenetics were evaluated by FISH for the most common CLL abnormalities (del(13q), trisomy 12, del(l lq), del(17p), rearrangements of chromosome 14; all probes from Vysis, Des Plaines, IL) at the Brigham and Women's Hospital Cytogenetics Laboratory, Boston MA (Dohner, N Engl J Med, 2000, 343: 1910-6). Samples were scored positive for a chromosomal aberration based on consensus cytogenetic scoring (Cancer, Genet Cytogenet, 2010, 203: 141-8). Percent tumor cells harboring common CLL cytogenetic abnormalities, detected by FISH cytogenetics, are tabulated per sample in Table 9. Whole-genome and -exome DNA sequencing. Informed consent on DFCI IRB- approved protocols for whole genome sequencing of patients' samples was obtained prior to the initiation of sequencing studies. Genomic DNA was isolated from patient CD19+CD5+ tumor cells and autologous skin fibroblasts (Wizard kit; Promega, Madison WI) per manufacturer's instructions. Alternatively, germline genomic DNA was extracted from autologous epithelial cells, obtained from saliva samples (DNA Genotek, Kanata, Ontario, Canada) or from autologous blood granulocytes, isolated following Ficoll/Hypaque density gradient centrifugation. Whole genome shotgun (WG) and whole exome (WE) capture libraries were constructed as previously described (Chapman, Nature, 2011, 471:467-72; Gnirke, Nat Biotechnol, 2009, 27: 182-9; Berger, Nature, 2011, 470:214-20). For 51 (56%) of the 91 CLL samples included in the analysis, sequencing was performed on capture libraries generated from whole genome amplified (WGA) samples. For those samples, 100 ng inputs of samples were whole genome amplified with the Qiagen REPLI-g Midi Kit (Valencia, CA). No significant differences in mutation rate were observed between data originating from WGA and non-WGA samples (see Table 3). WGS libraries were sequenced on an average of 39 lanes of an Illumina GA-II sequencer, using 101 bp paired-end reads, with the aim of reaching 30X genomic coverage of distinct molecules per sample (Chapman, Nature, 2011, 471:467-72; Berger, Nature, 2011, 470:214-20). Exome sequencing libraries were sequenced on three lanes of the same instrument, using 76 bp paired-end reads. Sequencing data subsequently was processed using the 'Picard' pipeline, developed at the Broad Institute's Sequencing Platform (Fennell T, unpublished; Cambridge, MA), which includes base-quality recalibration (DePristo, Nat Genet 2011, 43:491-8), alignment to the NCBI Human Reference Genome Build hgl8 using MAQ (Li, Genome Res 2008, 18: 1851-8), and aggregation of lane- and library-level data. Identification of somatic tumor mutations and calculation of significance. From the sequencing data, tumor- specific gene alterations were identified using a set of tools contained with the 'Firehose' pipeline (Chapman, Nature, 2011, 471:467-72; Berger, Nature, 2011, 470:214-20), developed at the Broad Institute. Somatic single nucleotide variations (SSNVs) were detected using muTect, while somatic small insertions and deletions were detected using the algorithm Indelocator. The algorithm MutSig (Lawrence in preparation; (Ding, Nature 2008, 455: 1069-75; Network, Nature 2008, 455: 1061-8; Getz, Science 2007, 317: 1500)) was applied to sequencing data from the 3 genomes and 88 exomes. Briefly, MutSig tabulates the number of mutations and the number of adequately covered bases for each gene (i.e. bases with >= 14 tumor and >=8 normal reads). The counts are broken down by mutation context category (i.e. CpG transitions, other C:G transitions, any transversion, A:T transitions). For each gene, the probability of seeing the observed constellation of mutations or a more extreme one, given the background mutation rates calculated across the dataset was calculated (see Table 3 for background mutation rate). This is done by convoluting a set of binomial distributions as described previously, which results in a p and q value (Getz, Science 2007, 317: 1500). The 4 samples for which normal germline DNA was derived from blood granulocytes had a significantly lower detection of somatic mutations, suggesting contamination with tumor DNA. Reanalysis excluding these 4 samples had little effect on mutation rate (increased by only 5%: 0.71 mutations/Mb to 0.75 mutations/Mb) and yielded the same results of significantly mutated genes (q<0.1). All mutations in genes that were significantly mutated or within pathways related to these significantly mutated genes were confirmed by manual inspection of the sequencing data (Robinson, Nat Biotechnol 2011;29:24-6). Furthermore, these mutations were also validated using an independent platform (Sequenom mass spectrometry-based genotyping). There was no significant difference in non- synonymous mutation rate between IGHV- mutated and unmutated patients (despite 82% power to detect differences of 0.6 standard deviations; one-sided 0.05 level test) or between different clinical stages. The ability to detect mutations of low allele fraction depends on several factors, including the purity and ploidy of the sample, and the copy number at the locus in question. Graphical representation of the distribution of allelic fraction among the total number of 2348 mutations detected is depicted in FIG. 11. To estimate the rate of false -positive mutation calls, a subset of the putative somatic point mutations and indels were randomly chosen to be subjected to orthogonal validation by multiplexed Sequenom mass spectrometry assays. Because of the limited sensitivity of this assay at low allele fractions, the analysis was restricted to mutations that were present in the tumor at an allele fraction of at least one- third. The Sequenom assays were designed for 71 randomly selected mutations, and of these, 66 were successfully validated as somatic. The other 5 were deemed to be reference. This yields an estimated specificity of 93%. Statistical analysis of mutation rate in association with clinical variables. Clinical data were available from 91 CLL samples comprising the genome/exome sequenced discovery set, and from 101 CLL samples used for extension and validation. The association between patient characteristics and clinical variables such as time to first treatment (TTFT) and mutation rate or presence or absence of driver mutations was tested. P-values were calculated using the Wilcoxon rank sum test for quantitatively measured variables across two groups, the Fisher Exact test for categorical variables, the Kruskal- Wallis test for quantitatively measured variables across three groups and for ordered categorical data, and the log rank test for comparing Kaplan-Meier estimated censored time to event variables. Time to first therapy was defined as the elapsed time between initial diagnosis and first treatment for CLL. Patients who remained untreated for their disease at the most recent follow-up were censored at that time. All statistical tests were performed using SAS software version 9.2 and R version 2.8.0. Univariate analysis was performed using Cox proportional hazards regression for the 19 variables potentially predictive of TTFT including (IGHV mutated vs. unmutated vs. unknown, ZAP-70 negative vs. positive vs. unknown, Rai stage at sampling 0/1 vs 2/3/4 vs unknown, age (>55 yrs. vs. <55 yrs), sex, presence of del(17p), del(l lq), trisomy(12), homozygous del(13q), heterozygous del(13q), presence of mutations in ATM, NOTCH1, SF3B1, TP53, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, MYD88. A stepwise Cox proportional hazards regression model of TTFT was performed for the 91 discovery samples, using the 19 variables listed above. The same final model was obtained with a forward selection procedure. Step-up models using the -2 log likelihood statistic to assess goodness of fit using the appropriate degrees of freedoms were also explored. Cox modeling results are reported as hazard ratios along with the 95% confidence intervals. Detection of altered RNA splicing. Total RNA was extracted from normal B and CLL-B cells (TRIZOL; Invitrogen, Carlsbad CA). 2μg total RNA from each sample was treated with DNase I (2 units/sample; New England BioLabs, Ipswich MA) at 37°C for 20 minutes to remove contaminating genomic DNA, followed by heat-inactivation of DNase I at 75°C for 15 minutes, and then used as template to synthesize cDNA by reverse transcription (Superscript® III First-Strand kit; Invitrogen, Carlsbad CA). We designed in parallel quantitative Taqman assays primers to detected spliced transcripts across consecutive exons, and unspliced transcripts in which one primer was localized within the retained intron. Details of primer design the splicing assays for RIOK3, and BRD2 are noted in Table 11. All assays were run in triplicate using the 7500 Fast System (Applied Biosystems, Carlsbad CA), and all values were normalized to GAPDH gene expression. Relative splicing activity was measured by calculating the ratio of unspliced to spliced forms of each target gene. For some experiments, splicing was measured following treatment of 293 cells or normal B cells or CLL cells with the SF3b-complex targeting drug E7107 at 1 μΜ (gift of Robin Reed, HMS). Example 2. CLL CARRIES A LOW SOMATIC MUTATION RATE DNA derived from CD19+CD5+ leukemia cells was sequenced and matched germline DNA derived from autologous skin fibroblasts, saliva-derived epithelial cells or blood granulocytes. Samples were taken from patients displaying a broad range of clinical characteristics, including the high-risk deletions of chromosomes l lq and 17p, and both unmutated and mutated IGHV (FIG. 5A). Deep sequence coverage was obtained to enable high sensitivity in identifying mutations (Table 1). To detect point mutations and insertions or deletions (indels), sequences of each tumor were compared to its corresponding normal using well- validated algorithms (Chapman, Nature, 2011 , 471 :467-72; CGARN, Nature, 2011, 474:609-15; Berger, Nature, 2011, 470:214-20; Robinson, Nat Biotechnol 2011;29:24-6) 1838 non- synonymous and 539 synonymous mutations were detected in protein- coding sequences, corresponding to an average somatic mutation rate of 0.72/Mb (SD=0.36, range 0.075-2.14), and an average of 20 non-synonymous mutations per individual (range 2- 76) (Table 1; Table 2). This rate is similar to that previously reported for CLL and other hematologic malignancies (Fabbri, J Exp Med, 2011; Puente, Nature, 2011; Chapman, Nature, 2011, 471:467-72; Mardis, N Engl J Med 2009, 361: 1058-66; Ley, Nature 2008;456:66-72). There was no significant difference in non-synonymous mutation rate between IGHV-mutated and -unmutated tumors or between different clinical stages of disease (Table 3). Prior exposure to chemotherapy (30 of 91 samples) was not associated with increased non- synonymous mutation rate (p=0.14, FIG. 5B) (CGARN, Nature, 2008, 455: 1061-8). Example 3. IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANTLY MUTATED GENES IN CLL To identify genes whose mutations were associated with CLL tumorigenesis ('driver' mutations), all 91 leukemia/normal pairs were examined using the MutSig algorithm for genes that were mutated significantly more than the background rate given their sequence composition. Eight such genes were identified, with q < 0.1 after correction for multiple hypothesis testing: TP53, SF3B1, MYD88, ATM, FBXW7, NOTCH1, ZMYM3, and DDX3X (FIG. 1). Whereas the overall ratio of non- synonymous/synonymous (NS/S) mutations was 3.1, the mutations in these 9 genes were exclusively non-synonymous (65:0, p<5 x 10'6, Table 2), further supporting their functional importance. Moreover, these gene mutations occurred exclusively in conserved sites across species (FIG. 6). Four of the significantly mutated genes, TP53, ATM, MYD88 and NOTCH1, have been described previously in CLL (Puente, Nature, 2011; Austen, Blood, 2005, 106:3175- 82; Zenz, J Clin Oncol, 2010, 28:4473-9; Trbusek, J Clin Oncol 2011;29:2703-8). 15 TP53 mutations in 14 of 91 CLL samples (15%; q < 6.3 x 10'8), mostly localized to the DNA binding domain that is critical for its tumor suppressor activity (Zenz, J Clin Oncol, 2010, 28:4473-9) (FIG. 7A). In 8 samples, we detected 9 ATM mutations (9%; q < 1.1 x 10'5) scattered across this large gene, including in regions where mutation has been associated with defective DNA repair in CLL (Austen, Blood, 2005, 106:3175-82) (FIG. 7D). MYD88, a critical adaptor molecule of the interleukin 1 receptor (ILlR)/Toll-like receptor (TLR)-mediated signaling pathway, harbored missense mutations in 9 CLL samples (10%) at 3 sites localized within 40 amino acids of the Toll/ILIR (TIR) domain. One site was novel (P258L), while the other two were identical to those recently described as activating mutations of the NF-KB/TLR pathway in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) (M232T and L265P, FIG. 7C) (Ngo, Nature 2011, 470: 115-9). Finally, we detected 4 CLLs (4%) with a recurrent frameshift mutation (P2514fs) in the C-terminal PEST domain of NOTCH 1 identical to that recently reported in CLL(Fabbri, J Exp Med, 2011; Puente, Nature, 2011) (FIG. 7F). This mutation is associated with unmutated IGHV and poor prognosis (Fabbri, J Exp Med, 2011; Puente, Nature, 2011), and is predicted to cause impaired degradation of NOTCH 1, leading to pathway activation. Four of the significantly mutated genes (SF3B 1 , FBXW7, DDX3X, ZMYM3) have not been reported in CLL. Strikingly, the second most frequently mutated gene within our cohort was splicing factor 3b, subunit 1 (SF3B1), with missense mutations in 14 of 91 CLL samples (15%) (FIG. 7B). SF3B1 is a component of the SF3b complex, which associates with U2 snRNP at the catalytic center of the spliceosome (Wahl, Cell, 2009, 136:701-18). SF3B1, other U2 snRNP components, and defects in splicing have not been previously implicated in the biology of CLL. Remarkably, all 14 mutations localized within the C- terminal PP2A-repeat regions 5 to 8, which are highly conserved from human to yeast (FIGs. 6 and 7B), and 7 mutations produced an identical amino-acid change (K700E). Like MYD88 and NOTCH 1, the clustering of heterozygous mutations within specific domains and at identical sites suggests that they cause specific functional changes. While the N- terminal domain of SF3B1 is known to interact directly with other spliceosome components (Wahl, Cell, 2009, 136:701-18), the precise role of its C-terminal domain remains unknown. Only 6 mutations have been reported in SF3B1 , all in solid tumors and in the PP2A-repeat region (Table 5). The four remaining significantly mutated genes are novel to CLL and appear to have functions that interact with the 5 frequently mutated genes cited above (FIG. 7). FBXW7 (4 distinct mutations) is an ubiquitin ligase and known as a tumor suppressor gene, with loss of expression in diverse cancers (Yada, EMBO J, 2004, 23:2116-25; Babaei-Jadidi, J Exp Med, 2011, 208:295-312) (FIG. 7E). Its targets include important oncoproteins such as Notchl, c-Myc, c-Jun, cyclin El, and MCL1 (Yada, EMBO J, 2004, 23:2116-25; Babaei- Jadidi, J Exp Med, 2011, 208:295-312). Two of the 4 mutations in FBXW7 cause constitutive Notch signaling in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (O'Neil J Exp Med, 2007, 204: 1813-24). DDX3X (3 distinct mutations) (FIG. 7H) is a RNA helicase that functions at multiple levels of RNA processing, including RNA splicing, transport, translation initiation, and regulation of an RNA-sensing proinflammatory pathway (Rosner, Curr Med Chem, 2007, 14:2517-25). Interestingly, DDX3X directly interacts with XPOl (Rosner, Curr Med Chem, 2007, 14:2517-25) which was recently reported as mutated in 2.4% of CLL patients (Puente, Nature, 2011). MAPKl (3 distinct mutations), also known as ERK, is a kinase that is involved in core cellular processes such as proliferation, differentiation, transcription regulation, development and is a key signaling component of the TLR pathway (Pepper, Blood, 2003, 101:2454-60; Muzio, Blood, 2008, 112: 188-95). Two of three distinct MAPKl mutations localize to the protein kinase domain, thus providing the first examples of somatic mutations within the protein-kinase domain of an ERK family member in a human cancer (FIG. 71). Finally, we identified 4 distinct mutations in ZMYM3, a component of histone deacetylase-containing multiprotein complexes that function to silence genes through modifying chromatin structure (Lee, Nature, 2005, 437:432-5) (FIG. 7G). The three most recurrent mutations, SF3B1-K700E, MYD88-L265P, and NOTCH1- P2514fs, were validated on 101 independent paired CLL-germline DNA samples, in which comparable detection frequencies was observed between the discovery and extension cohort (p=0.20, 0.58, and 0.38, respectively) (Table 6). The nine significantly mutated genes fall into five core signaling pathways, in which the genes play well-established roles: DNA damage repair and cell-cycle control (TP53 and ATM), Notch signaling (FBXW7 and NOTCH1 (O'Neil J Exp Med, 2007, 204: 1813-24)), inflammatory pathways (MYD88 and DDX3X) and RNA splicing/processing (SF3B1, DDX3X) (FIG. 2). We also noticed that additional genes are mutated in these pathways (as defined by the MSigDB Canonical Pathway database (Subramanian, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 2005, 102: 15545-50) and literature) (FIG. 2; FIG. 4 and Table 7). Although these genes do not reach statistical significance alone or as a set, they might do so in a larger collection of samples. On the other hand, 19 of 59 genes classified as members of the Wnt signaling pathway, which has been implicated in CLL based on gene expression studies (Gutierrez, Blood, 2010; Klein, J Exp Med 2001, 194: 1625-38), were mutated within our cohort. Although no individual gene reached significance, the Wnt pathway, as a set, showed a high frequency of mutations (p=0.048, FIG. 2). Example 4. DRIVER MUTATIONS ARE ASSOCIATED WITH DISTINCT CLINICAL GROUPS To examine the association between driver mutations and particular clinical features, CLL-associated cytogenetic aberrations and IGHV mutation status in samples harboring mutations in the 9 significantly mutated genes were assessed. Samples were ordered based on FISH cytogenetics, utilizing an established model of hierarchical risk (Dohner, N Engl J Med, 2000, 343: 1910-6) (i.e. del(13q), most favorable prognosis when present alone; trisomy 12; and del(l lq) and del(17p), both associated with aggressive chemotherapy- refractory disease) (FIG. 3; Tables 8-9). The distinct prognostic implications of these cytogenetic abnormalities have suggested that they may reflect distinct pathogenesis. These data demonstrate associations of different driver mutations with different key FISH abnormalities, providing support for this hypothesis. Consistent with prior literature (Zenz, J Clin Oncol, 2010, 28:4473-9), most TP53 mutations (11 of 17) were present in samples also harboring del(17p) (p<0.001), resulting in homozygous p53 inactivation. Mutations in ATM - which lies in the minimally deleted region of chromosome 1 lq - were marginally associated with del(l lq) (4 of 22 del(l lq) samples, (p=0.09)). Strikingly, mutations in SF3B1 were associated with del(l lq) (8 of 22 (36%) del(l lq) samples; p=0.004). Of the six CLL samples with mutated SF3B1 and without del(l lq), two also harbored a heterozygous mutation in ATM. These findings strongly suggest an interaction between del(l lq) and SF3B1 mutation in the pathogenesis of this clinical subgroup of CLL. Furthermore, the NOTCH 1 and FBXW7 mutations were associated with trisomy 12 (p=0.009, and 0.05, respectively). As in previous reports (Fabbri, J Exp Med, 2011; Puente, Nature, 2011), NOTCH1 mutations consistently associated with unmutated IGHV status. The data described herein show that the NOTCH 1 and FBXW7 mutations were present in independent samples, suggesting they may similarly lead to aberrant Notch signaling in this clinical subgroup. All MYD88 mutations were present in samples harboring heterozygous del(13q) (p=0.009). As in recent reports (Fabbri, J Exp Med, 2011; Puente, Nature, 2011), the data demonstrate that MYD88 mutation was always associated with mutated IGHV status (p=0.001), which suggests a post-germinal center origin. These results indicate that, like in DLBCL, where MYD88 is frequently mutated (Ngo, Nature 2011, 470: 115-9), constitutive activation of the NF-KB/TLR pathway may have larger impact in the germinal center context. Example 5. MUTATIONS IN SF3B1 ARE ASSOCIATED WITH EARLIER TIME TO FIRST THERAPY AND ALTERED PRE-MRNA SPLICING Mutations in NOTCH1 and MYD88 were respectively associated with unmutated and mutated IGHV status across the 192 CLL samples in the discovery and extension sets. Mutation SF3B1-K700E was associated with unmutated IGHV, p=0.048, but was also distributed in IGHV-mutated samples, suggesting that it is an independent risk factor (FIG. 9A). Indeed, a Cox multivariable regression model for clinical factors contributing to an earlier time to first therapy (TTFT) in the 91 CLL samples revealed that SF3B1 mutation was predictive of shorter time to requiring treatment (HR 2.20, p=0.032), independent of other established predictive markers such as IGHV mutation, presence of del(17p) or ATM mutation (FIG. 4A). Consistent with these analyses, patients harboring the SF3B 1 mutation alone (without del(l lq)) had TTFT similar to patients with del(l lq) alone or with both del(l lq) and SF3B1 mutation. All three groups demonstrated significantly shorter TTFT than patients without SF3B1 mutation or without del(l lq) (FIG. 9B, p<0.001). Similar short TTFT was observed among the 3 CLL samples within the extension cohort whose tumors harbored the SF3B1-K700E mutation compared to samples without this mutation. Because SF3B 1 encodes a splicing factor that lies at the catalytic core of the spliceosome, functional evidence of alterations in splicing associated with SF3B1 mutation was examined. Kotake et al. previously used intron retention in the endogenous genes BRD2 and RIOK3 to assay function of the SF3b complex (Kotake, Nat Chem Biol, 2007, 3:570-5). The SF3B1 inhibitor E7107, which targets the spliceosome complex, inhibits splicing of BRD2 and RIOK3 in both normal and CLL-B cells (FIG. 10A). Using this assay, aberrant endogenous splicing activity were found in CLL samples harboring mutated SF3B1 (n=13) versus wildtype SF3B1 (n=17), in which the ratio of unspliced to spliced mRNA forms of BRD2 and RIOK3 was significantly higher in those harboring SF3B1 mutations (median ratios 2.0 vs. 0.55 [p<0.0001], and 4.6 vs. 2.1 [p=0.006], respectively) (FIG. 4B). In contrast, no splicing defects were detected in del(l lq) samples with WT SF3B1 compared to del(l lq) samples with mutated SF3B1 (FIG. 10B). These studies indicate that splicing function in CLL is altered as a result of mutation in SF3B1 rather than del(l lq). Example 6. Materials & Methods Experimental procedures. 149 patients with CLL provided tumor and normal DNA for sequencing and copy number assessment in this study. Tumor and normal DNA from 11 additional patients were also analyzed by DNA sequencing alone (a total of 160 CLL samples). 82 CLL samples were previously reported (Quesada et al., 2012; Wang et al., 2011), and the raw BAM files for these samples were re-processed and re-analyzed together with the new data, to ensure the consistency of the results as well as enable the detection of smaller subclones made possible with a newer version of the mutation caller [MuTect]. Written informed consent was obtained prior to sample collection according to the Declaration of Helsinki. DNA was extracted from blood- or marrow-derived lymphocytes (tumor) and autologous epithelial cells (saliva), fibroblasts or granulocytes (normal). Libraries for whole-exome sequencing (WES) were constructed and sequenced on either an Illumina HiSeq 2000 or Illumina GA-IIX using 76 bp paired-end reads, and data were processed, as detailed elsewhere (Berger et al., 2011; Chapman et al., 2011; Fisher et al., 2011). As previously described (Chapman et al., 2011), output from Illumina software was processed by the Picard data processing pipeline to yield BAM files containing well calibrated, aligned reads (DePristo et al., 2011). BAM files were processed by the Firehose pipeline, which performs QC and identifies somatic single nucleotide variations (sSNVs), indels, and other structural chromosomal rearrangements. Recurrent sSNV and indels in 160 CLLs were identified using MutSig2.0 (Lohr et al., 2012). For 111 of 149 matched CLL- normal DNA samples, copy number profiles were obtained using the Genome- wide Human SNP Array 6.0 (Affymetrix), according to the manufacturer's protocol (Genetic Analysis Platform, Broad Institute, Cambridge MA), with allele- specific analysis [HAPSEG (Carter, 2011)]. Significant recurrent somatic copy number alterations (sCNAs) were identified using the GISTIC2.0 algorithm (Mermel et al., 2011). Regions with germline copy number variants were excluded from the analysis. For CLL samples with no available SNP arrays (38 of 149 CLLs), sCNAs were estimated directly from the WES data, based on the ratio of CLL sample read-depth to the average read-depth observed in normal samples for that region. We applied the algorithm ABSOLUTE (Carter et al., 2012), to estimate sample purity, ploidy, and absolute somatic copy numbers. These were used to infer the cancer cell fraction (CCF) of point mutations from the WES data. Following the framework previously described (Carter et al., 2012), we computed the posterior probability distribution over CCF c as follows. Consider a somatic mutation observed in a of N sequencing reads on a locus of absolute somatic copy-number q in a sample of purity . The expected allele-fraction of a mutation present in one copy in a fraction c of cancer cells is calculated by f{c) = acf (2(1 - a) + aq), with c€ [0.01,1]- Then P(c> o Binom(a|iV,/(c)), assuming a uniform prior on c. The distribution over CCF was then obtained by calculating these values over a regular grid of 100 c values and normalizing. Mutations were thereafter classified as clonal based on the posterior probability that the CCF exceeded 0.95, and subclonal otherwise. Validation of allelic fraction was performed by using deep sequencing with indexed libraries recovered on a Fluidigm chip. Resulting normalized libraries were loaded on a MiSeq instrument (Illumina) and sequenced using paired-end 150bp sequencing reads to an average coverage depth of 4200X. Associations between mutation rates and clinical features were assessed by the Wilcoxon rank-sum test, Fisher exact test, or the Kruskal-Wallis test, as appropriate. Time- to-event data were estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier, and differences between groups were assessed using the log-rank test. Unadjusted and adjusted Cox modeling was performed to assess the impact of the presence of a subclonal driver on clinical outcome measures alone and in the presence of clinical features known to impact outcome, such as IGHV status, cytogenetics, and mutation identity. A chi-square test with 1 degree of freedom and the -2 Log-likelihood statistic were used to test the prognostic independence of subclonal status in Cox modeling. Human samples. Heparinized blood, skin biopsies and saliva were obtained from patients enrolled on clinical research protocols at the Dana-Farber Harvard Cancer Center (DFHCC) approved by the DFHCC Human Subjects Protection Committee. The diagnosis of CLL according to WHO criteria was confirmed in all cases by flow cytometry, or by lymph node or bone marrow biopsy. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from normal donors and patients were isolated by Ficoll/Hypaque density gradient centrifugation. Mononuclear cells were used fresh or cryopreserved with FBS 10% DMSO and stored in vapour-phase liquid nitrogen until the time of analysis. Primary skin fibroblast lines were generated from skin punch biopsies as previously described (Wang et al., 2011). The patients included in the cohort represent the broad clinical spectrum of CLL (data not shown). Established CLL prognostic factor analysis. Immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable (IGHV) homology ( 'unmutated was defined as greater than or equal to 98% homology to the closest germline match) and ZAP-70 expression (high risk defined as >20% positive) were determined(Rassenti et al., 2008). Cytogenetics were evaluated by FISH for the most common CLL abnormalities (del(13q), trisomy 12, del(l lq), del(17p), rearrangements of chromosome 14) (all probes from Vysis, Des Plaines, IL, performed at the Brigham and Women's Hospital Cytogenetics Laboratory, Boston MA). Samples were scored positive for a chromosomal aberration based on consensus cytogenetic scoring (Smoley et al., 2010). DNA quality control. We used standard Broad Institute protocols as recently described (Berger et al., 2011; Chapman et al., 2011). Tumor and normal DNA concentration were measured using PicoGreen® dsDNA Quantitation Reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA). A minimum DNA concentration of 60 ng/μΐ was required for sequencing. In select cases where concentration was <60 ng/μΐ, ethanol precipitation and re- suspension was performed. Gel electrophoresis confirmed that the large majority of DNA was high molecular weight. All Illumina sequencing libraries were created with the native DNA. The identities of all tumor and normal DNA samples (native and WGA product) were confirmed by mass spectrometric fingerprint genotyping of 24 common SNPs (Sequenom, San Diego, CA). Whole-exome DNA sequencing. Informed consent on DFCI IRB-approved protocols for whole exome sequencing of patients' samples was obtained prior to the initiation of sequencing studies. DNA was extracted from blood or marrow-derived lymphocytes (tumor) and saliva, fibroblasts or granulocytes (normal), as previously described (Wang et al., 2011). Libraries for whole exome (WE) sequencing were constructed and sequenced on either an Illumina HiSeq 2000 or Illumina GA-IIX using 76 bp paired-end reads. Details of whole exome library construction have been detailed elsewhere (Fisher et al., 2011). Standard quality control metrics, including error rates, percentage passing filter reads, and total Gb produced, were used to characterize process performance before 15 downstream analysis. Average exome coverage depth was 132x/146x for tumor/germline. The Illumina pipeline generates data files (BAM files) that contain the reads together with quality parameters. Of the 160 CLL samples reported in the current manuscript, 82 were included in a previous study (Wang et al., 2011). 340 CLL and germline samples were sequenced overall. These include 160 CLL and matched germline DNA samples as well as timepoint 2 samples for 17 of 160 CLLs, and an additional sample pair and germline for a longitudinal sample pair not included in the 160 cohort (CLL020). Identification of somatic mutations. Output from Illumina software was processed by the 'Picard' data processing pipeline to yield BAM files containing aligned reads (via MAQ, to the NCBI Human Reference Genome Build hgl8) with well-calibrated quality scores (Chapman et al., 2011; DePristo et al., 2011). For 51 of the 160 CLL samples included in the analysis, sequencing was performed on capture libraries generated from whole genome amplified (WGA) samples. For those samples, 100 ng inputs of samples were whole genome amplified with the Qiagen REPLI-g Midi Kit (Valencia, CA). From the sequencing data, somatic alterations were identified using a set of tools within the 'Firehose' pipeline, developed at The Broad Institute, Inc. and available at its website. The details of our sequencing data processing have been described elsewhere (Berger et al., 2011; Chapman et al., 2011). Somatic single nucleotide variations (sSNVs) were detected using MuTect; somatic small insertions and deletions (indels) were detected using Indelocator. All mutations identified in longitudinal samples were confirmed by manual inspection of the sequencing data (Robinson et al., 2011). An estimated contamination threshold of 5% was used for all samples based on the highest contamination values seen in a formal contamination analysis done with ContEst based on matched SNP arrays (Cibulskis et al., 2011). Ig loci mutations were not included in this analysis. Somatic mutations detected in the 160 CLL samples were compiled (data not shown). WES data is deposited in dbGaP (phs000435.vl.pl). Significance analysis for recurrently mutated genes. The prioritization of somatic mutations in terms of conferring selective advantage was done with the statistical method MutSig2.0 (Lohr et al., 2012). In short, the algorithm takes an aggregated list of mutations and tries to detect genes that are affected more than expected by chance, as those likely reflect positive selection (i.e., driver events). There are two main components to MutSig2.0: The first component attempts to model the background mutation rate for each gene, while taking into account various different factors. Namely, it takes into account the fact that the background mutation rate may vary depending on the base context and base change of the mutation, as well as the fact that the background rate of a gene can also vary across different patients. Given these factors and the background model, it uses convolutions of binomial distributions to calculate a P value, which represents the probability that we obtain the observed configuration of mutations, or a more significant one. The second component of the algorithm focuses on the positional configuration of mutations and their sequence conservation (Lohr et al., 2012). For each gene, the algorithm permutes the mutations preserving their tri-nucleotide context, and for each permutation calculates two metrics: one that measures the degree of clustering into hotspots along the coding length of the gene, and one that measures the average conservation of mutations in the gene. These two null models are then combined into a joint distribution, which is used to calculate a P value that reflects the probability by chance that we can obtain by chance the observed mutational degree of clustering and conservation, or a more significant outcome. The two P values that are produced by the two components are then combined using Fisher-Combine (Fisher, 1932) which yields a final P value which is used to sort the genes by degree of mutational significance. This is subsequently corrected for multihypothesis using the Benjamini Hochberg procedure. Genome-wide copy number analysis. Genome- wide copy number profiles of 111 CLL samples and their patient-matched germline DNA were obtained using the Genome- wide Human SNP Array 6.0 (Affymetrix), according to the manufacturer's protocol (Genetic Analysis Platform, The Broad Institute, Inc. Cambridge, MA). SNP array data were deposited in dbGaP (phs000435.vl.pl). Allele- specific analysis also allowed for the identification of copy neutral LOH events as well as quantification of the homologous copy- ratios (HSCSs) [HAPSEG (Carter, 2011)]. Significant recurrent chromosomal abnormalities were identified using the GISTIC2.0 algorithm ((Mermel et al., 201 l),v87). Regions with germline copy number variants were excluded from the analysis. For CLL samples with no available SNP arrays (38/160), sCNAs were estimated directly from the WES data, based on the ratio of CLL sample read-depth to the average readdepth observed in normal samples for that region. 11/160 samples were excluded from this analysis due to inability to obtain copy number information from the WES data. See FIG. 13A for outline of sample processing. Validation deep sequencing. Validation targeted resequencing of 256 selected somatic mutations sSNVs was performed using microfluidic PCR. Target specific primers with Fluidigm-compatible tails were designed to flank sites of interest and produce amplicons of 200 +/-20bp. Molecular barcoded, Illumina-compatible oligonucleotides, containing sequences complementary to the primer tails were added to the Fluidigm Access Array chip (San Francisco, CA) in the same well as the genomic DNA samples (20 - 50 ng of input) such that all amplicons for a given genomic sample shared the same index, and PCR was performed according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Indexed libraries were recovered for each sample in a single collection well on the Fluidigm chip, quantified using picogreen and then normalized for uniformity across libraries. Resulting normalized libraries were loaded on a MiSeq instrument (Illumina) and sequenced using paired end 150bp sequencing reads. 95.2% of called sSNVs were detected in the validation experiment (data not shown). For 91.8% of the mutations, the allelic fraction estimates were concordant (with the discordant events enriched in sites of lower WES coverage). RNA sequencing (dUTP Library Construction). 5μg of total RNA was poly- A selected using oligo-dT beads to extract the desired mRNA. The purified mRNA is treated with DNAse, and cleaned up using SPRI (Solid Phase Reversible Immobilization) beads according to the manufacturers' protocol. Selected Poly-A RNA was then fragmented into -450 bp fragments in an acetate buffer at high heat. Fragmented RNA was cleaned with SPRI and primed with random hexamers before first strand cDNA synthesis. The first strand was reverse transcribed off the RNA template in the presence of Actinomycin D to prevent hairpinning and purified using SPRI beads. The RNA in the RNA-DNA complex was then digested using RNase H. The second strand was next synthesized with a dNTP mixture in which dTTPs had been replaced with dUTPs. After another SPRI bead purification, the resultant cDNA was processed using Illumina library construction according to manufacturers protocol (end repair, phosphorylation, adenylation, and adaptor ligation with indexed adaptors). SPRTbased size selection was performed to remove adapter dimers present in the newly constructed cDNA library. Libraries were then treated with Uracil- Specific Excision Reagent (USER) to nick the second strand at every incorporated Uracil (dUTP). Subsequently, libraries were enriched with 8 cycles of PCR using the entire volume of sample as template. After enrichment, the library is quantified using pico green, and the fragment size is measured using the Agilent Bioanalyzer according to manufactures protocol. Samples were pooled and sequenced using either 76 or lOlbp paired end reads. RNASeq data analysis. RNAseq BAMs were aligned to the hgl8 genome using the TopHat suite. Each somatic base substitution detected by WES was compared to reads at the same location in RNAseq. Based on the number of alternate and reference reads, a power calculation was obtained with beta-binomial distribution (power threshold used was greater than 80%). Mutation calls were deemed validated if 2 or greater alternate allele reads were observed in RNA-Seq at the site, as long as RNAseq was powered to detect an event at the specified location. FACS validation ofploidy estimates with ABSOLUTE. Consistent with published studies of CLL(Brown et al., 2012; Edelmann et al., 2012), ABSOLUTE measured all CLL samples to be near diploid (data not shown; median - 2, range 1.95-2.1). We confirmed the measurements using a standard assay for measuring DNA content. For this analysis, peripheral blood mononuclear cells from normal volunteers and CLL patients and cell lines are first stained with anti-CD5 FITC and anti-CD 19 PE antibodies in a PBS buffer containing 1% BSA for 30 minutes on ice. After extensive washes, the cells were then stained with a PBS buffer contained 1% BSA, 0.03% saponin (Sigma) and 250ug/ml 7- AAD (Invitrogen) for 1 hour on ice, followed by analysis on a Beckman Coulter FC500 machine (FIG. 21A). Estimation of mutation cancer cell fraction using ABSOLUTE. We used the ABSOLUTE algorithm to calculate the purity, ploidy, and absolute DNA copy-numbers of each sample (Carter et al., 2012). Modifications were made to the algorithm, which are implemented in version 1.05 of the software, available for download at The Broad Institute, Inc. website. Specifically, we added to the ability to determine sample purity from sSNVs alone, in samples where no sCNAs are present (the ploidy of such samples is 2N). In addition, estimates of sample purity and absolute copy-numbers are used to compute distributions over cancer cell fraction (CCF) values of each sSNV, as described (Experimental Procedures), and for sCNAs (described below). The current implementation of ABSOLUTE does not automatically correct for sCNA subclonality when computing CCF distributions of sSNVs (this is an area of ongoing development). Fortunately, the few sCNAs that occurred in our CLL samples were predominantly clonal. Manual corrections were made for CLL driver sSNVs occurring at site of subclonal sCNAs (5 TP53 sSNVs and 1 ATM sSNV), based on the sample purity, allelic fraction and the copy ratio of the matching sCNA. Each sSNV was classified as clonal or subclonal based on the probability that the CCF exceeded 0.95. A probability threshold of 0.5 was used throughout the manuscript. However, as the histogram in FIG. 21 shows, the distribution of events around the threshold was observed to be fairly uniform and results were not significantly affected across a range of thresholds. For example, the results of our analyses were unchanged when we altered our definition of clonal mutations to be (Pr(CCF>0.95)) > 0.75, and subclonal when Pr(CCF>0.95) was < 0.25, leaving uncertain mutations unclassified. Using these thresholds, CLLs with mutated IGHV and age were associated with a higher number of clonal mutations (P values of 0.05 and <0.0001, respectively). CLLs treated prior to sample collection had a higher number of subclonal mutations (P=0.01) and the subclonal set was enriched with putative drivers (P =0.0019). Importantly, the results of the clinical analysis also remained unchanged. FFS_Rx was shorter in samples in which a subclonal driver was detected (P=0.007) and regression models examining known poor prognostic indicators in CLL yielded an adjusted P value of 0.009. One of the recurrent CLL cancer genes, NOTCH1, had 15 mutations, 14 of which were the identical canonical 2 base -pair deletions. Unlike sSNVs, the observed allelic fractions of indels events were not modeled as binomial sampling of reference and alternate sequence reads according to their true concentration in the sample (Carter et al., 2012). This was due to biases affecting the alignment of the short sequencing reads, which generally favor reference over alternate alleles. To measure the magnitude of this effect, we examined the allelic fraction (AF) of 514 germline 2bp deletions called in 4 normal germline WES samples. We observed that the distribution (data not shown) of allelic-fractions for heterozygous events was peaked at 0.41, as opposed to the expected mode of 0.5, with nearly all AFs between 0.3 to 0.6. Therefore, the bias factor towards reference is peaked at 0.82 but may range from 0.6 to 1 (unlikely to be greater than 1). CCF distributions for the 14 somatic indels in NOTCH1 were calculated using bias factors of 1.0 (no bias), 0.82 (bias point-estimate), and 0.6 (worst case observed). Reassuringly, the classification of NOTCH1 indels as clonal or subclonal was highly robust and was essentially the same using the three values— only a single case (CLL155) was ambiguous and was classified as subclonal using 1.0 and 0.82, and clonal using 0.6. Taking a conservative approach, not classifying a mutation as sub-clonal unless there is clear evidence for it, we decided to call this event as clonal for downstream analysis. Estimation of CCF values for subclonal sCNAs is implemented (ABSOLUTEvl .05) in a manner analogous to the procedure for sSNVs (Experimental Procedures), although the transformation is more complex, due to the need for assumptions of the subclonal structure and the error model of microarray based copy-number data. Segmental sCNAs are defined as subclonal based on the mixture model used in ABSOLUTE (Carter et al., 2012). Let the functions h x and ! x denote a variance stabilizing transformation and its derivative, respectively. For SNP microarray data, these are defined as: h x = sink H&v ), where h = H and ft'(x) = ; r (Huber et al., 2002). The values σε and ση denote additive and multiplicative noise scales, respectively, for the microarray hybridization being analyzed; these are estimated by HAPSEG (Carter et al., 2011). The calibrated probe-level microarray data become approximately normal under this transformation, which is used by HAPSEG to estimate the segmental allelic copy-ratios V{ and the posterior standard deviation of their mean (under the transformation), θ{ (Carter, 2011). An additional parameter σπ is estimated by ABSOLUTE(Carter et al., 2012), which represents additional sample-level variance corresponding to regional biases not captured in the probe-level model. For a subclonal segment i, let qc denote the absolute copy number in the unaffected cells, and qs denote the absolute copy number in the altered cells. Both of these values are unknown but we used a simplifying assumption that the difference between qc and qs is one copy with qc being closer to the modal copy-number. Therefore, for subclonal deletions (copy ratios below the ratio of modal copy number), qs was set to the nearest copy number below the measured value, and qc=qs+l. For subclonal gains (ratios above the modal number), qs was set to the nearest copy number above the measured value, and qc=qs-l. Because the CLL genomes analyzed here were universally near diploid, this was nearly equivalent to assuming that subclonal deletions had qs=0 in the affected cells and gains qs=2, with qc=l in both cases (in allelic units). However, we note that these assumptions would not be strictly correct in genomes after doubling, or in cases of high level amplification. In these cases, calculation of posterior CCF distributions will require integration over qs and qc, averaging over the set of plausible subclonal genomic configurations. Let rc and rs be the theoretical copy ratio values corresponding to qc and qs (accounting for sample purity, ploidy, and the modeled attenuation rate of the microarray (Carter et al., 2011; Carter et al., 2012)). Let d = rs - rc, then, for CCF c, let rx c = dc + rc. Then P (c) <x (h rx (c)) I h(n), (σ{ + σΗ)2) h rx(c)) . The distribution over CCF is obtained by calculating these values over a regular grid of 100 c values and normalizing. We note that, when copy numbers are estimated directly from sequencing data, the calculation is simpler, as there is no attenuation effect and h x = x. These calculations were used to generate the 95% confidence intervals on the CCF of subclonal driver sCNAs shown in FIG. 15. Cancer gene census list and conservation annotations. Conservation of a specific mutated site was adapted from UCSC conservation score track. A scale of 0-100 was linearly converted from the -6 to 6 scale used in the phastCons track (Siepel et al., 2005). To confirm that driver mutations are more likely to occur in conserved sites, we quantified the conservation in the COSMIC database (Forbes et al., 2008) hotspots and compared it to non-COSMIC hotspots coding location. We matched conservation information for 5085 sites that had greater than 3 exact hits reported in mutations deposited in the COSMIC database, and compared it to conservation found for a set of non- overlapping 5085 randomly sampled coding sites. The conservation was higher in the COSMIC sites than in the non-COSMIC coding sites set (mean conservation 82.39 and 62.15, respectively, p<le- 50). We noted that the distribution of events was not uniform, and nearly one half of COSMIC hotspots had a conservation measure greater than 95 (49.65%, compared to 15.5% in the non-COSMIC set, p<le-50). For our calculations, we used a cut off of >95 to designate conserved sites likely to contain higher proportion of cancer drivers. We complemented the analysis for putative driver event enrichment by matching the altered genes to the Cancer Gene Census (Futreal et al., 2004). Clustering analysis ofsSNVs in 18 CLL sample pairs. In order to better resolve the true cancer cell fraction (CCF) of sSNVs detected in longitudinal samples, we employed a previously described Bayesian clustering procedure (Escobar and West, 1995). This approach exploits the assumption that the observed subclonal sSNV CCF values were sampled from a smaller number of subclonal cell populations (subclones). All remaining uncertainty (including the exact number of clusters) was integrated out using a mixture of Dirichlet processes, which was fit using a Gibbs sampling approach, building on a previously described framework (Escobar and West, 1995). The inputs to this procedure are the posterior CCF distributions for each sSNV being considered. We note that the CCF distributions for sCNAs could be added into the model, however we did not attempt this in the present study. CCF distributions are represented as 100-bin histograms over the unit interval; the two-dimensional CCF distributions used for the 2D clustering of longitudinal samples were obtained as the outer product of the matched histogram pairs for each mutation, resulting in 10,000-bin histograms (FIG. 22). We note that the use of histograms to represent posterior distributions on CCF, although computationally less efficient than parametric forms, have the advantage that CCFs of different mutation classes may be easily combined in the model, even though their posteriors may have very different forms. We also note that the algorithm implementation is identical for the single sample and paired (longitudinal) sample cases, although only the latter was used in the present study. At each iteration of the Gibbs sampler, each mutation is assigned to a unique cluster and the posterior CCF distribution of each cluster is computed using Bayes' rule, as opposed to drawing a sample from the posterior (a uniform prior on CCF from 0.01 to 1 is used). When considering the probability of a mutation to join an existing cluster, the likelihood calculation of the mutation arising from the cluster is integrated over the uncertainty in the cluster CCF. This allows for rapid convergence of the Gibbs sampler to its stationary distribution, which was typically obtained in fewer than 100 iterations for the analysis presented in this study. We ran the Gibbs sampler for 1,000 iterations, of which the first 500 were discarded before summarization. Because of the small number of clonal mutations in some WES samples, we make an additional modification to the standard Dirichlet process model by adding a fixed clonal cluster that persists even if no mutation is assigned to it. This reflects our prior knowledge that clonal mutations must exist, even if they are the minority of detected mutations. For the samples analyzed here, this modification had very little effect. A key aspect of implementing the Dirichlet process model on WES datasets is reparameterization of prior distributions on the number of subclones k as priors on the concentration parameter a of the Dirichlet process model. Importantly, this must take into account the number of mutations N input to the model, as the effect of a on k is strongly dependent on N (Escobar and West, 1995). We accomplish this by constructing a map from a regular grid over a to expected values of k, given N, using the fact that: * ' ' T ¾' * Π*+ΑΓ> (Antoniak, 1974), where the cN(k) factors correspond to the unsigned Stirling numbers of the first kind. With this map in hand, we perform an optimization procedure to find parameters a and b of a prior Gamma distribution over a resulting in the minimal Kullback-Leibler divergence with the specified prior over k (the divergence was computed numerically on the histograms). Once the prior over a has been represented as a Gamma distribution, learning about a (and therefore k) from the data can be directly incorporated into the Gibbs sampling procedure, resulting in a continuous mixture of Dirichlet processes (Escobar and West, 1995). This allows consistent parameterization of prior knowledge (or lack thereof) on the number of subclonal populations in the face of vastly different numbers of input mutations, which is necessary for making consistent inferences across differing datasets (e.g. WES vs. WGS). We note that taking uncertainty about into account is necessary for inferences on the number of subclonal populations to be strictly valid, since implementations with fixed values of result in an implicit prior over k that depends upon N (this is especially important for smaller values of N). For the application presented in this study (FIG. 15), we specified a weak prior on k using a negative binomial distribution with r=10, μ=2 (these values favored 1-10 subclones). Upon termination of the Gibbs sampler, we summarized the posterior probability over the CCF of each sSNV by averaging the posterior cluster distribution for all clusters to which the sSNV was assigned during sampling. This allowed shrinkage of the CCF probability distributions (as shown in FIG. 15; pre-clustering results are shown in FIG. 22A-B), without having to choose an exact number of subclonal clusters. Note that the 18 longitudinal sample pairs contain 1 CLL sample pair not initially included in the 160 CLLs (CLL020). Gene Expression Profiling. Total RNA was isolated from viably frozen PBMCs or B cells from CLL patients that were followed longitudinally (Midi kit; Qiagen, Valencia CA), and hybridized to the U133Plus 2.0 array (Affymetrix, Santa Cruz, CA) at the DFCI Microarray Core Facility. All expression profiles were processed using RMA, implemented by the PreprocessDataset module in GenePattern available at The Broad Institute, Inc. website (Irizarry et al., 2003; Reich et al., 2006). Probes were collapsed to unique genes by selecting the probe with the maximal average expression for each gene. Batch effects were further removed using the ComBat module in GenePattern(Johnson et al., 2007) (Reich et al., 2006). Visualizations in GENE-E, available at The Broad Institute, Inc. website, were based on logarithmic transformation (log2) of the data and centering each gene (zero mean). These data can be accessed at NCBI website with accession number GSE37168. RNA pyrosequencing for mutation confirmation. Quantitative targeted sequencing to detect somatic mutation within cDNA was performed, as previously described (Armistead et al., 2008). In brief, biotinylated amplicons generated from PCR of the regions of transcript surrounding the mutation of interest were generated. Immobilized biotinylated single- stranded DNA fragments were isolated per manufacturer's protocol, and sequencing undertaken using an automated pyrosequencing instrument (PSQ96; Qiagen, Valencia CA), followed by quantitative analysis using Pyrosequencing software (Qiagen). Statistical methods. Statistical analysis was performed with MATLAB (MathWorks, Natick, MA), R version 2.11.1 and SAS version 9.2 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC). Categorical variables were compared using the Fisher Exact test, and continuous variables were compared using the Student' s t-test, Wilcoxon rank sum test, or Kruskal Wallis test as appropriate; the association between two continuous variables was assessed by the Pearson correlation coefficient. The time from the date of sample to first therapy or death (failure-free survival from sample time or FFS_Sample) was calculated as the time from sample to the time of the first treatment after the sample or death and was censored at the date of last contact. FFS_Rx (failure-free survival from first treatment after sampling) was defined as the time to the 2nd treatment or death from the 1st treatment following sampling, was calculated only for those patients who had a 1st treatment after the sample and was censored at the date of last contact for those who had only one treatment after the sample. Time to event data were estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier, and differences between groups were assessed using the log-rank test. Unadjusted and adjusted Cox modeling was performed to assess the impact of the presence of a subclonal driver and a driver irrespective of the CCF on FFS_Sample and FFS_Rx. A chi-square test with 1 degree of freedom and the -2 Log-likelihood statistic was used to test the prognostic independence of subclonal status in Cox modeling using a full model and one without subclonal status included. We also formally tested for nonproportionality of the hazards in FIG. 17B. First, we plotted the log(-log(survival) versus log(time) for the two categories, and demonstrated that curves do not cross, which supports the fact that they are proportional. Second, we also tested for nonproportionality by including a time varying covariate for each variable in the model. None of these were significant indicating that the hazards are proportional. Models were adjusted for known prognostic factors for CLL treatment including the presence of a 17p deletion, the presence of a 1 lq deletion, IGHV mutational status, and prior treatment at the time of sample. Cytogenetic abnormalities were primarily assessed by FISH and if unknown, genomic data were included. For unknown IGHV mutational status an indicator was included in adjusted modeling and was not found to be significant. All P-values are two-sided and considered significant at the 0.05 level unless otherwise noted. Results Large-scale WES analysis of CLL expands the compendium of CLL drivers and pathways. We performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) (Gnirke et al., 2009) of 160 matched CLL and germline DNA samples (including 82 of the 91 samples previously reported (Wang et al., 2011)). These patients represented the broad spectrum of CLL clinical heterogeneity, and included patients with both low- and high-risk features based on established prognostic risk factors (ZAP70 expression, the degree of somatic hypermutation in the variable region of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGHV) gene, and presence of specific cytogenetic abnormalities) (data not shown). We applied MuTect (a highly sensitive and specific mutation-calling algorithm) to the WES data to detect somatic single nucleotide variations (sSNVs) present in as few as 10% of cancer cells. Average sequencing depth of WES across samples was -130X. In total, we detected 2,444 nonsynonymous and 837 synonymous mutations in protein-coding sequences, corresponding to a mean (±SD) somatic mutation rate of 0.6+0.28 per megabase (range, 0.03 to 2.3), and an average of 15.3 nonsynonymous mutations per patient (range, 2 to 53) (data not shown). Expansion of our sample cohort provided us with the sensitivity to detect 20 putative CLL cancer genes (q<0.1), which was accomplished through recurrence analysis using the MutSig2.0 algorithm (Lohr et al., 2012) which detects genes enriched with mutations beyond the background mutation rate (FIG. 12A-top, FIG. 19) or genes with mutations that overlap with previously reported mutated sites (from COSMIC (Forbes et al., 2010); FIG. 12A-middle). These included 8 of the 9 genes identified in our initial report (TP53, ATM, MYD88, SF3B1, NOTCHl, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7) (Wang et al, 2011). The missing gene, MAPKl, did not harbor additional mutations in the increased sample set and therefore its overall mutation frequency now fell below our significance threshold. The 12 newly identified genes were mutated at lower frequencies, and hence were not detected in the subset of sequenced samples that we previously reported. Three of the 12 additional candidate driver genes were identified in recent CLL sequencing efforts {XPOl, CHD2, and POT1) (Fabbri et al., 2011; Puente et al., 2011). The 9 remaining genes represent novel candidate CLL drivers, with mutations occurring at highly conserved sites (FIG. 19). These included six genes with known roles in cancer biology (NRAS, KRAS (Bos, 1989), BCOR (Grossmann et al., 2011), EGR2 (Unoki and Nakamura, 2003 ), MED12 (Makinen et al., 2011) and RIPK1 (Hosgood et al., 2009)), two genes that affect immune pathways (SAMHD1 (Rice et al., 2009), ITPKB (Marechal et al., 2011)) and a histone modification gene (HIST1H1E (Alami et al., 2003 J). Together, the 20 candidate CLL driver genes appeared to fall into 7 core signaling pathways, in which the genes play roles. These include all five pathways that we previously reported to play a role in CLL (DNA repair and cell-cycle control, Notch signaling, inflammatory pathways, Wnt signaling, RNA splicing and processing). Two new pathways were implicated by our analysis: B cell receptor signaling and chromatin modification (FIG. 12B). We also noted that the CLL samples contained additional mutations in the genes that form these pathways (marked as pink ovals in FIG. 12B), some of which are known drivers in other malignancies. Because recurrent chromosomal abnormalities have defined roles in CLL biology (Dohner et al., 2000; Klein et al., 2010), we further searched for loci that were significantly amplified or deleted by analyzing somatic copy- number alterations (sCNAs). We applied GISTIC2.0 (Mermel et al., 2011) to 111 matched tumor and normal samples which were analyzed by SNP6.0 arrays (Brown et al., 2012). Through this analysis, we identified deletions in chromosome 8p, 13q, l lq, and 17p and trisomy of chromosome 12 as significantly recurrent events (FIG. 12A-bottom). Thus, based on WES and copy number analysis, we altogether identified 20 mutated genes and 5 cytogenetic alterations as putative CLL driver events. Inference of genetic evolution with whole-exome sequencing data. In order to study clonal evolution in CLL, we performed integrative analysis of sCNAs and sSNVs using a recently reported algorithm ABSOLUTE (Carter et al., 2012), which jointly estimated the purity of the sample (fraction of cancer nuclei) and the average ploidy of the cancer cells. All samples were estimated to have near-diploid DNA content; these estimates were confirmed by FACS analysis of 7 CLL samples (FIG. 21). Our data were sufficient for resolution of these quantities in 149 of the 160 samples (data not shown), allowing for discrimination of subclonal from clonal alterations, including sCNAs, sSNVs, and selected indels. Our analysis approach is outlined in FIG. 13 A. For each sSNV, we estimated its allelic fraction by calculating the ratio of alternate to total number of reads covering the mutation site in the WES data. These estimates were consistent with independent deeper genome sequencing and RNA sequencing (FIG. 21B-C, data not shown). Next, we used ABSOLUTE (Carter et al., 2012) to estimate the cancer cell fraction (CCF) harboring the mutation by correcting for sample purity and local copy-number at the sSNV sites (data not shown, FIG. 13B). We classified a mutation as clonal if the CCF harboring it was >0.95 with probability > 0.5, and subclonal otherwise (FIG. 13A, inset). The results remained unchanged when more stringent cutoffs were used. For sSNVs designated as subclonal, median CCF was 0.49 with a range of 0.11 to 0.89. Overall, we identified 1,543 clonal mutations (54% of all detected mutations, average of 10.3+5.5 mutations per sample, data not shown). These mutations were likely acquired either before or during the most recent complete selective sweep. This set therefore includes both neutral somatic mutations that preceded transformation and the driver and passenger event(s) present in each complete clonal sweep. A total of 1,266 subclonal sSNVs were detected in 146 of 149 samples called by ABSOLUTE (46%; average of 8.5+5.8 subclonal mutations per sample). These subclonal sSNVs exist in only a fraction of leukemic cells, and hence occurred after the emergence of the 'most-recent common ancestor', and by definition, also after disease initiation. The mutational spectra were similar in clonal and subclonal sSNVs (FIG. 22), consistent with a common set of mutational processes giving rise to both groups. Age and mutated IGHV status are associated with an increased number of clonal somatic mutations. The presence of subclones in nearly all CLL samples enabled us to analyze several aspects of leukemia progression. We first addressed how clonal and subclonal mutations relate to the salient clinical characteristics of CLL. CLL is generally a disease of the elderly with established prognostic factors, such as the IGHV mutation (Dohner, 2005) and ZAP70 expression. Patients with a high number of IGHV mutations (mutated IGHV) tend to have better prognosis than those with a low number (unmutated IGHV) (Damle et al., 1999; Lin et al., 2009). This marker may reflect the molecular differences between leukemias originating from B cells that have or have not yet, respectively, undergone the process of somatic hypermutation that occurs as part of normal B cell development. We examined the association of these factors, as well as patient age at diagnosis, with the prevalence of clonal and subclonal mutations. We found that age and mutated IGHV status were associated with greater numbers of clonal (but not subclonal) mutations (age, P<0.001; mutated vs unmutated IGHV, P=0.05; FIG. 13C) while there was no association with ZAP70 expression (data not shown). Since CLL samples with mutated IGHV derive from B-cells that have experienced a burst of mutagenesis as part of normal B cell somatic hypermutation, the increased number of clonal somatic mutations is likely related to aberrant mutagenesis that preceded clonal transformation (Deutsch et al., 2007; McCarthy et al., 2003). Furthermore, the higher number of clonal sSNVs in older individuals is consistent with the expectation that more neutral somatic mutations accumulate over the patient's lifetime prior to the onset of cancer later in life (Stephens et al., 2012; Welch et al., 2012). Subclonal mutations are increased with treatment. The effect of treatment on subclonal heterogeneity in CLL is unknown. In samples from 29 patients treated with chemotherapy prior to sample collection, we observed a significantly higher number of subclonal (but not clonal) sSNVs per sample than in the 120 patients who were chemotherapy-naive at time of sample (FIG. 13D, top and middle panels). Using an analysis of covariance model, we observed that receipt of treatment prior to sample among the 149 patients was statistically significant (P=0.048) but time from diagnosis to sample was not (P=0.31). Because patients that do not require treatment in the long-term may have a distinct subtype of CLL, we also restricted the comparison of the 29 pre-treated CLLs to only the 42 that were eventually treated after sample collection and again confirmed this finding (P=0.02). In these 42 patients, a higher number of subclonal mutations was not correlated with a shorter time to treatment (correlation coefficient =0.03; P=0.87). Thus, therapy prior to sample was associated with a higher number of subclonal mutations, and furthermore, the number of subclonal sSNVs detected increased with the number of prior therapies (P=0.011, data not shown). Cancer therapy has been theorized to be an evolutionary bottleneck, in which a massive reduction in malignant cell numbers results in reduced genetic variation in the cell population (Gerlinger and S wanton, 2010). The overall diversity in CLL may be diminished after therapeutic bottlenecks as well. Because most of the genetic heterogeneity within a cancer is present at very low frequencies (Gerstung et al., 2012)—below the level of detection afforded by the -130X sequence coverage we generated— we were unable to directly assess reduction in overall genetic variation . However, in the range of larger subclones that were observable by our methods, (>10 of malignant cells), we witnessed increased diversity after therapy (FIG. 13D). Although, the available data cannot definitively rule out extensive diversification following therapy, this increase likely results, at least in part, from outgrowth of pre-existing minor subclones. This may result from the removal of dominant clones by cytotoxic treatment, eliminating competition for growth and allowing the expansion of one or more fit subclones to frequencies above our detection threshold. Further supporting our interpretation that fitter clones grow more effectively and become detectable after treatment, we observed an increased frequency of subclonal driver events (which are presumably fitter) in treated relative to untreated patients (FIG. 13D, bottom) (note that driver events include CLL driver mutations (FIG. 12A) and sSNVs in highly conserved sites of genes in the Cancer Gene Census (Futreal et al., 2004)). Inferring the order of genetic changes underlying CLL. While general aspects of temporal evolution could not be completely resolved in single timepoint WES samples, the order of driver mutation acquisition could be partially inferred from the aggregate frequencies at which they are found to be clonal or subclonal. We considered the 149 samples as a series of 'snapshots' taken along a temporal axis. Clonal status in all or most mutations affecting a specific gene or chromosomal lesion would indicate that this alteration was acquired at or prior to the most recent selective sweep before sampling and hence could be defined as a stereotypically early event. Conversely, predominantly subclonal status in a specific genetic alteration implies a likely later event that is tolerated and selected for only in the presence of an additional mutation. This strategy was used to infer temporal ordering of the recurrent sSNVs and sCNAs (FIG. 14A). We focused on alterations found in at least 3 samples within the cohort of 149 CLL samples. We found that three driver mutations - MYD88 (n=l2), trisomy 12 (n=24), and hemizygous del(l3q) (n=10) - were clonal in 80-100% of samples harboring these alterations, a significantly higher level than for other driver events (q<0. l, Fisher exact test with Benjamini-Hochberg FDR (Benjamini and Hochberg, 1995)), implying that they arise earlier in typical CLL development. Mutations in HIST1H1E, although clonal in 5 of 5 affected samples, did not reach statistical significance. Other recurrent CLL drivers - for example, ATM, TP53 and SF3B1 (9, 19 and 19 mutations in 6, 17 and 19 samples, respectively)— were more often subclonal, indicating that they tend to arise later in leukemic development and contribute to disease progression. We note that the above approach assumed that different CLL samples evolve along a common temporal progression axis. We therefore examined specifically CLL samples that harbored one 'early' driver mutation and any additional driver alteration(s). The 'early' events had either similar or a higher CCF compared to 'later' events (examples for trisomy 12 and MYD88 given in FIG. 14B). Direct observation of clonal evolution by longitudinal data analysis of chemotherapy-treated CLL. To directly assess the evolution of somatic mutations in a subset of patients, we compared CCF for each alteration across two clinical timepoints in 18 of the 149 samples (median years between timepoints was 3.5; range 3.1-4.5). Six patients ('untreated') did not receive treatment throughout the time of study. The remaining 12 patients ('treated') received chemotherapy (primarily fludarabine and/or rituxan-based) in the interval between samples (data not shown). The two patient groups were not significantly different in terms of elapsed time between first and second sample (median 3.7 years for the 6 untreated patients compared to 3.5 years for the 12 treated patients, P=0.62; exact Wilcoxon rank-sum test), nor did it differ between time of diagnosis to first sample (P=0.29). Analysis of the 18 sets of data revealed that 11% of mutations increased (34 sSNVs, 15 sCNAs), 2% decreased (6 sSNVs, 2 sCNAs) and 87% did not change their CCF over time (q <0.1 for significant change in CCF, data not shown). As shown by our single timepoint analysis, we observed a shift of subclonal driver mutations (e.g., Jel(l lq), SF3B1 and TP 53) towards clonality over time. Changes in the genetic composition of CLL cells with clonal evolution were associated with network level changes in gene expression related to emergence of specific subclonal populations (e.g. changes in signatures associated with SF3B1 or NRAS mutation, FIG. 23D, data not shown). Finally, expanding sSNVs were enriched in genes included in the Cancer Gene Census (Futreal et al., 2004) (P=0.021) and in CLL drivers (P=0.028), consistent with the expected positive selection for the subclones harboring them. Clustering analysis of CCF distributions of individual genetic events over the two timepoints, revealed clear clonal evolution in 11 of 18 CLL sample pairs. We observed clonal evolution in 10 of 12 sample pairs which had undergone intervening treatment between timepoints 1 and 2 (FIG. 15B, FIG. 23A-C). This was contrasted with the 6 untreated CLLs, 5 of which demonstrated equilibrium between subpopulations that was maintained over several years (FIG. 15, P=0.012, Fisher exact test). Of the 11 patients with subclonal evolution across the sampling interval, 5 followed a branched evolution pattern as indicated by the disappearance of mutations with high CCF co-occurring with the expansion of other subclones (FIG. 15B). This finding demonstrates that co-existing sibling subclones are at least as common in CLL as are linear nested subclones, as demonstrated in other hematological malignancies (Ding et al., 2012; Egan et al., 2012). We conclude that chemotherapy-treated CLLs often undergo clonal evolution resulting in the expansion of previously minor subclones. Thus, these longitudinal data validate the insights obtained in the cross-sectional analysis, namely that (i) 'later' driver events expand over time (FIG. 14A) and (ii) treatment results in the expansion of subclones enriched with drivers (and thus presumably have higher fitness) (FIG. 13D). Presence of subclonal drivers adversely impacts clinical outcome. We observed treatment-associated clonal evolution to lead to the replacement of the incumbent clone by a fitter pre-existing subclone (FIG. 15B). Therefore, we would expect a shorter time to relapse in individuals with evidence of clonal evolution following treatment. As a measure of relapse, we assessed failure-free survival from time of sample ('FFS_S ample') and failure-free survival from time of next therapy ('FFS_Rx', FIG. 16 A), where failure is defined as retreatment (a recognized endpoint in slow growing lymphomas (Cheson et al., 2007)) or death. For the study of clonal evolution in CLL, the use of retreatment is a preferable endpoint to other measures such as progression alone, as this is a well-defined event that is reflective of CLL disease aggressiveness. For example, disease progression alone in CLL may be asymptomatic without necessitating treatment; conversely, treatment is administered only in the setting of symptomatic disease or active disease relapse (Hallek et al., 2008). Within the 12 of 18 longitudinally analyzed samples that received intervening treatment, we observed that the 10 samples with clonal evolution exhibited shortened FFS_Rx (log-rank test; P=0.015, FIG. 16B). Importantly, the somatic driver mutations that expanded to take over the entire population upon relapse ('timepoint-2'), were often already detectable in the pre-treatment ('timepoint-l') sample (FIGs. 15B and 23B). Our results thus show that presence of detectable subclonal drivers in pre-treatment samples can anticipate clonal evolution in association with treatment. Indeed, the 8 of 12 samples with presence of subclonal drivers in pretreatment samples exhibited shorter FFS_Rx than the 4 samples with subclonal drivers absent (p=0.041; FIG. 16C). Together, the results of our longitudinally studied patient samples showed that the presence of driver events within subclones may impact prognosis and clinical outcome. We tested this hypothesis in the set of 149 patient samples, of which subclonal driver mutations were detected in 46% (FIG. 17A; data not shown). Indeed, we found that CLL samples with subclonal driver mutations were associated with a shorter time from sample collection to treatment or death ('FFS_S ample', P<0.001, FIG. 17B, data not shown), that seemed to be independent of established markers of poor prognosis (i.e. unmutated IGHV, or presence of del(l lq) or del(llp), FIG. 24). Moreover, we tested specifically whether the presence of pre-treatment subclonal drivers was associated with a shorter FFS_Rx, as we observed in the longitudinal data. Therefore, we focused on the 67 patients who were treated after sample collection (median time to first therapy from time of sample was 11 months [range 1-45]). These patients could be divided into two groups based on the presence (n=39) or absence (n=29) of a subclonal driver (62% and 64%, respectively, were treated with fludarabine-based immunochemotherapy, P=0.4). The 39 of these patients in which subclonal CLL drivers were detected required earlier retreatment or died (shorter FFS_Rx; log-rank test, P=0.006; FIG. 17C, data not shown), indicative of a more rapid disease course. Regression models adjusting for multiple CLL prognostic factors (IGHV status, prior therapy and high risk cytogenetics) supported the presence of a subclonal driver as an independent risk factor for earlier retreatment (adjusted hazard ratio (HR) of 3.61 (CI 1.42-9.18), Cox P=0.007; unadjusted HR, 3.20 (CI 1.35-7.60); FIG. 17D), comparable to the strongest known CLL risk factors. In similar modeling within a subset of 62 patients who had at least one driver (clonal or subclonal), the association of the presence of a subclonal driver with a shorter time to retreatment or death was also significant (P=0.012, data not shown) reflecting that this difference is not merely attributable to the presence of a driver. Additionally, an increased number of subclonal driver mutations per sample (but not an increased number of clonal drivers) was also associated with a stronger HR for shorter FFS_Rx (data not shown). Finally, this association retained significance (Cox P=0.033, data not shown) after adjusting for the presence of mutations previously associated with poor prognosis {ATM, TP 53, SF3B1), showing that in addition to the driver's identity, its subclonal status also affects clinical outcome. Discussion The analysis of clonal heterogeneity in CLL provides a glimpse into the past, present and future of a patient's disease. While inter-tumoral (Quesada et al., 2012; Wang et al., 2011) and intra-tumoral (Schuh et al., 2012; Stilgenbauer et al., 2007) genetic heterogeneity had been previously demonstrated in CLL, our use of novel WES-based algorithms enabled a more comprehensive study of clonal evolution in CLL and its impact on clinical outcome. Through the cross- sectional analysis of 149 samples, we derived the number and genetic composition of clonal and subclonal mutations and thus uncovered footprints of the past history of CLL, such as the accumulation of passenger mutations related to age and aberrant somatic hyperaiutation preceding transformation. Furthermore, we inferred a temporal order of genetic events implicated in CLL. Finally, our combined longitudinal and cross- sectional analyses revealed that knowledge of subclonal mutations can anticipate the genetic composition of the future relapsing leukemia and the rapidity with which it will occur. We proposed the existence of distinct periods in CLL progression, with unique selection pressures acting at each period. In the first period prior to transformation, passenger events accumulate in the cell that will eventually be the founder of the leukemia (in proportion to the age of the patient; FIG. 13C), and are thus clonal mutations (FIG. 18A). In the second period, the founding CLL mutation appears in a single cell and leads to transformation (FIG. 18B); these are also clonal mutations, but unlike passenger mutations, these are recurrent across patients. We identified driver mutations that were consistently clonal (del(13q), MYD88 and trisomy 12; FIG. 14A) and which appear to be relatively specific drivers of CLL or B cell malignancies (Beroukhim et al., 2010; Dohner et al., 2000; Ngo et al., 2010). In the third period of disease progression, subclonal mutations expand over time as a function of their fitness integrating intrinsic factors (e.g. proliferation and apoptosis) and extrinsic pressures (e.g., interclonal competition and therapy) (FIG. 18C-D). The subclonal drivers include ubiquitous cancer genes, such as ATM, TP53 or RAS mutations (FIG. 14A). These data show that mutations that selectively affect B cells may contribute more to the initiation of disease and precede selection of more generic cancer drivers that underlie disease progression - providing predictions that can be tested in human B cells or animal models of CLL. An important question addressed here is how treatment affects clonal evolution in CLL. In the 18 patients monitored at 2 timepoints, we observed two general patterns - clonal equilibrium in which the relative sizes of each subclone were maintained and clonal evolution in which some subclones emerge as dominant (FIG. 15). Without treatment, 5 of 6 CLLs remained in stable equilibrium while 1 CLL showed clonal evolution. With treatment, only 2 of 12 patients were stable and 10 of 12 showed clonal takeover. We propose that in untreated samples, more time is needed for a new fit clone to take over the population in the presence of existing dominant clones (FIG. 18D-top). In contrast, in treated samples, cytotoxic therapy typically removes the incumbent clones (Jablonski, 2001)— acting like a 'mass extinction' event (Jablonski, 2001)— and shifts the evolutionary landscape (Nowak and Sigmund, 2004; Vincent and Gatenby, 2008) in favor of one or more aggressive subclones (Maley et al., 2006) (FIG. 18D-bottom). Thus, highly fit subclones likely benefit from treatment and exhibit rapid outgrowth (Greaves and Maley, 2012). CLL is an incurable disease with a prolonged course of remissions and relapses. It has been long recognized that relapsed disease responds increasingly less well to therapy over time. We now show an association between increased clinical aggressiveness and genetic evolution, which has therapeutic implications. We found that the presence of pre- treatment subclonal driver mutations anticipated the dominant genetic composition of the relapsing tumor. Such information may eventually guide the selection of therapies to prevent the expansion of highly fit subclones. In addition, the potential hastening of the evolutionary process with treatment provides a mechanistic justification for the empirical practice of 'watch and wait' as the CLL treatment paradigm (CLL Trialists Collaborative Group, 1999). The detection of driver mutations in subclones (a testimony to an active evolutionary process) may thus provide a new prognostic approach in CLL, which can now be rigorously tested in larger clinical trials. In conclusion, we demonstrate the ability to study tumor heterogeneity and clonal evolution with standard WES (coverage depth of -130X). These innovations will allow characterization of the subclonal mutation spectrum in large, publically available datasets (Masica and Karchin, 2011). The implementation described here may also be readily adopted for clinical applications. Even more importantly, our studies underscore the importance of evolutionary development as the engine driving cancer relapse. This new knowledge challenges us to develop novel therapeutic paradigms that not only target specific drivers (i.e., 'targeted therapy') but also the evolutionary landscape (Nowak and Sigmund, 2004) of these drivers. Table 1. Summary metrics of whole genome and exome sequencing studies. Average bases covered per Average exome coverage exome (34.3 Mb) (CLL/normal) Whole genomes (n=3) 70% 38x/33x Whole exomes (n=88) 81% 132x/146x Average mutations /Mb Average # of coding (Rate +/-SD across 91 cells mutations (range) Non-synonymous 0.7 + 0.36 20 (2-76) Synonymous 0.2 + 0.16 5.8 (0-31) Table 2. A complete list of somatic non-synonymous mutations in the final analysis set of 3 CLL genomes and 88 CLL exomes. Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID APEX2 27301 55045451 Missense c.360C>G p.A95G uc004dtz.1 P1 ASXL1 171023 30488000 Nonsense c.4250C>G p.S1275* uc002wxs.1 P1 ATP13A2 23400 17196202 Missense c.1 129T>G p.C365W uc001 baa.1 P1 BZRAP1 9256 53745004 Missense c.3048C>T p.S726F uc002ivx.2 P1 C1 1 orf61 79684 1241751 19 Missense c.391 A>G p.E123G uc001 qba.1 P1 C7orf51 222950 99924946 Missense c.1825G>A p.A556T uc003uvd.1 P1 CREB3L2 64764 137263565 Missense c.585A>G p.M64V uc003vtw.1 P1 DNMT3L 29947 44493352 Missense c.1464T>C P.I327T uc002zeh.1 P1 GGA1 26088 36358654 Missense c.2275G>T p.G637V uc003atc.1 P1 HIPK2 28996 138908403 Missense c.3581 A>C p.Y1 136S uc003wf.2 P1 INPP4B 8821 143263948 Missense c.2559A>T p.Q655L uc003iix.2 P1 MAPK8 5599 49303987 Missense c.963G>A p.E247K uc009xnz.1 P1 MYO10 4651 16756173 Missense c.2839G>C p.A791 P uc003jft.2 P1 R3HDM2 22864 55936537 Missense c.2865G>C p.G825A uc001 snt.2 P1 SLIT2 9353 20159235 Missense c.2576C>T p.T791 M uc003gpr.1 P1 TMEM51 55092 15418430 Missense c.914T>A p.D122E uc001 avw.2 P1 TOLLIP 54472 1273536 Missense c.209T>G p.V33G uc001 lte.1 P1 TSFM 10102 56476508 Missense c.965T>C p.S306P uc001 sqh.2 P1 UROC1 131669 127707353 Missense c.726C>T p.R232W uc010hsi.1 P1 ZFR2 23217 3759936 Frame_Shift_lns c.2490_2491 insG p.G826fs uc002l w.2 P1 ZNF536 9745 35731 163 Missense c.2935G>A p.E933K uc002nsu.1 P1 ZNF578 147660 57705665 Missense c.463G>T p.E73D uc002pzp.2 P1 ADAMTSL3 57188 82476242 Missense c.4484A>C p.E1420D uc002bjz.2 P2 ARHGEF10L 55160 17894135 Frame_Shift_Del c.1007 1022delTT p.F51fs uc001 bas.1 P2 C14orf37 145407 57674770 Missense c.1 171 G>A p.E354K uc001 xdc.1 P2 C4orf22 2551 19 82010250 Missense c.513C>T p.T155M uc010ijp.1 P2 CPSF2 53981 91678442 Missense c.1080G>T p.K281 N uc001 ah.1 P2 DMC1 1 1 144 37265361 Missense c.672G>A p.R166H uc003avz.1 P2 EHBP1 L1 254102 651 14138 Missense c.4329G>A p.R1355Q uc001 oeo.2 P2 GPR61 83873 109887249 Missense c.765G>T p.A28S uc001 dxy.2 P2 GRIP2 80852 14556888 Missense c.223A>G p.R75G uc003byt.1 P2 KIAA1244 57221 138625638 Missense c.1325A>G p.Q442R uc003qhu.2 P2 MAK 41 17 10872696 Missense c.2076T>G p.V616G uc003mzl.1 P2 MORC3 23515 36654161 Missense c.1304G>A p.C416Y uc002yvi.1 P2 MYOM1 8736 3145015 Missense c.1907T>G p.Y525D uc002klp.1 P2 NAIF1 203245 129868759 Missense c.454C>A p.T148K uc004bta.1 P2 NBPF16 728936 147019954 Frame_Shift_Del c.1538_1544delTT p.D449fs uc001 esf.2 P2 NET1 10276 5486369 Frame_Shift_Del c.1048 1066delCT p.L304fs uc001 iia.1 P2 NSL1 25936 21 1024336 Nonsense c.470G>T p.E146* uc001 hjn.1 P2 PCDHGB4 8641 140749175 Missense c.1540G>A p.A514T uc003lkc.1 P2 PIGX 54965 197939992 Missense c.713A>T p.R144S uc010iaj.1 P2 RP1 6101 55700154 Missense c.1307T>C p.F387L uc003xsd.1 P2 RSP04 343637 892700 Missense c.570G>A p.G158D uc002wej.1 P2 SKI 6497 2150476 Frame_Shift_Del c.483 484delGC p.Q137fs uc001 aja.2 P2 SLC2A14 144195 7861773 Missense c.2058G>C p.R422P uc001 qtk.1 P2 TARSL2 123283 100082062 Nonsense c.107C>T p.Q18* uc002bxm.1 P2 TNNT3 7140 1916276 Missense c.967A>T p.K252l uc001 luu.2 P2 TRAF7 84231 2160615 Splice_Site_lns c.e5 splice site uc002cow.1 P2 TRIM7 81786 180554912 Frame_Shift_lns c.1462_1463insA p.L465fs uc003mmz.1 P2 ZNF296 162979 50267276 Missense c.908T>G p.V284G uc002pao.1 P2 ZNF462 58499 108730641 Missense c.4916G>A p.V1543M uc004bcz.1 P2 BAZ2A 1 1 176 55289786 Splice_Site_SNP c.e10 splice site uc001 slq.1 P3 CADPS2 93664 121901798 Missense c.2034G>A p.R624H uc010lkp.1 P3 CENPE 1062 104251549 Missense c.7699G>A p.V2537l uc003hxb.1 P3 DCLK1 9201 35295012 Missense c.1620G>T p.G470W uc001 uvf.1 P3 DDX3X 1654 41081630 Nonsense c.926C>A p.S24* uc004dfe.1 P3 DNA2 1763 69901564 Missense c.322C>G p.P108A uc001jof.1 P3 EOMES 8320 27734163 Missense c.1520G>A p.R507H uc003cdy.2 P3 F9 2158 138446978 Missense c.261 T>G p.F78V uc004fas.1 P3 IFI16 3428 157288330 Frame_Shift_Del c.2025_2026delTA p.Y579fs uc001ftg.1 P3 MYH1 4619 10353626 Missense c.1582G>T p.M496l uc002gmo.1 P3 PLCL1 5334 198656746 De_novo_Start_OutOf Frame c.146G>A uc002uuw.2 P3 PPP1 CC 5501 109643278 Nonsense c.1 1 12C>T p.Q320* uc001tru.1 P3 PRICKLE1 144165 41 149628 Missense c.505A>T p.E92V uc001 rnl.1 P3 PTPRT 1 1 122 40177338 Missense c.3255C>T p.T1024M uc010ggj.1 P3 RFX7 64864 54174766 Frame_Shift_Del c.2451_2452delGA p.E817fs uc010bfn.1 P3 SERPINB2 5055 59721264 Missense c.1065C>A p.D331 E uc002ljo.1 P3 TP53 7157 7518263 Missense c.937G>A p.R248Q uc002gim.2 P3 ANKRD30A 91074 37459205 Missense c.334G>A p.V79l uc001 iza.1 P4 ATXN7L3 56970 39630295 Splice_Site_SNP c.e3_splice_site uc002ifz.1 P4 C15orf59 388135 71819930 Missense c.608G>A p.G88D uc002avy.1 P4 CPVL 54504 29070353 Missense c.1 105A>T p.Y329F uc003szv.1 P4 DAB1 1600 57249009 Missense c.2289G>A p.E539K uc001 cys.1 P4 DES 1674 219993578 Missense c.939G>A P.A285T uc002vll.1 P4 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID HERPUD1 9709 55533552 Missense c.1322G>A p.V305l uc002eke.1 P4 HFM1 164045 91618348 Missense c.1007G>A p.A303T uc001 doa.2 P4 KCNJ2 3759 65683052 Missense c.678G>A p.V93l uc010dfg.1 P4 MAVS 57506 3793248 Missense c.1 140C>T p.S324F uc002wjw.2 P4 NLGN3 54413 70306007 Missense c.2126G>A p.V608M uc004dzb.1 P4 OR6A2 8590 6772980 Missense c.736T>C P.I179T uc001 mes.1 P4 PPFIBP1 8496 27708589 Missense c.1371 T>C p.C332R uc001 ric.1 P4 RIN2 54453 19918809 Missense c.1958T>G p.V641 G uc002wro.1 P4 SPAG8 26206 35800295 Nonsense c.1327C>A p.Y404* uc003zye.1 P4 ARHGEF10 9639 1812236 Missense c.950G>A p.E258K uc003wpr.1 P5 ATAD3B 83858 1413149 Missense c.1359C>G p.R420G uc001 afv.1 P5 ATM 472 107741029 Missense c.9246A>G p.Y2954C uc001 pkb.1 P5 C12orf48 55010 101 1 13976 Missense c.1737A>C p.K425T uc001tjg.1 P5 CCDC18 343099 93492662 Missense c.3767G>A p.R1200Q uc001 dpq.1 P5 FMNL3 91010 48342029 Nonsense c.673C>T p.Q147* uc001 ruv.1 P5 KCNJ5 3762 128286871 Missense c.807A>T P.I165F uc001 qet.1 P5 KCNJ6 3763 38008528 Missense c.1339G>A p.D268N uc002ywo.1 P5 KDR 3791 55659683 Missense c.2614A>G p.T771 A uc003has.1 P5 LCP1 3936 45631039 Nonsense c.277C>T p.R51 * uc001vaz.2 P5 MED27 9442 133944883 Missense c.192A>T p.Q57L uc004cbe.1 P5 MTOR 2475 1 1 1 10752 Missense c.6008A>T p.T1977S uc001 asd.1 P5 MUC6 4588 1009308 Missense c.4048A>C p.T1333P uc001 lsw.2 P5 MYD88 4615 38157645 Missense c.794T>C p.L265P NM_002468 P5 PCDH17 27253 57106480 Missense c.2691 A>T p.N600l uc001vhq.1 P5 PHLPP2 23035 70267992 Missense c.1336G>A p.V444M uc002fax.1 P5 PRKCQ 5588 6580493 Missense c.596G>T p.G171 V uc001 iji.1 P5 RALYL 138046 85604230 Missense c.292C>A p.A53D uc003yct.2 P5 ROS1 6098 1 17780921 Missense c.4445G>A p.A1416T uc003pxp.1 P5 SIM1 6492 101002763 Missense c.1037T>C p.L277P uc003pqj.2 P5 SVEP1 79987 1 12291768 Missense c.2250T>C p.F638S uc010mtz.1 P5 ZNHIT6 54680 85940432 Missense c.1 149A>G p.K339E uc001 dlh.1 P5 CCDC67 159989 92736975 Missense c.399T>C P.F100S uc001 pdq.1 P6 CCDC94 55702 4218759 Frame_Shift_lns c.880_881 insC p.A283fs uc002lzv.2 P6 CFH 3075 194964125 Missense c.2503T>C p.S755P uc001 gtj.2 P6 COL14A1 7373 121332172 Missense c.3003G>T p.G913V uc003yox.1 P6 DDX3X 1654 41089376 Splice_Site_SNP c.e1 1_splice_site uc004dfe.1 P6 FERMT1 55612 60481 18 De_novo_Start_OutOf Frame c.873C>T uc010gbt.1 P6 MTCH1 23787 37053843 Missense c.580G>T p.V194F uc003one.2 P6 MYCBP2 23077 76540862 Missense c.1 1987G>A p.D3966N uc001vkf.1 P6 MY07A 4647 76573419 Splice_Site_Del c.e27_splice_site uc009yur.1 P6 OR2S2 56656 35947816 Missense c.336T>C p.S84P uc003zyt.2 P6 POU6F2 1 1281 39466752 Missense c.1526G>A p.R495H uc003thb.1 P6 SF3B1 23451 197975726 Missense c.1924A>C p.N626H uc002uue.1 P6 SMAD1 4086 146655259 Missense c.460A>G p.K15R uc003ikc.1 P6 SPATA6 54558 48649798 Missense c.495T>A p.F1 10L uc001 crr.1 P6 ZNF492 57615 22639513 Missense c.1333C>T p.A401 V uc002nqw.2 P6 CCNY 219771 35881993 Missense c.800T>C P.I207T uc001 iyw.2 P7 COL28A1 340267 7364940 Missense c.3344T>C p.L1076S uc003src.1 P7 DNAJB2 3300 219857865 Frame_Shift_lns .1 124 1 125insG p.L296fs uc002vkx.1 P7 EIF4A3 9775 75725883 Missense c.1058A>G p.T294A uc002jxs.1 P7 ELF5 2001 34458369 Missense c.1000C>T p.A257V uc001 mvo.1 P7 GCNT3 9245 57698729 Missense c.1590G>A p.A334T uc002agd.1 P7 IGFBP3 3486 45922781 Missense c.791 G>A p.R220H uc003tnr.1 P7 LAMA2 3908 129517441 Missense c.1231 G>A p.G376S uc003qbn.1 P7 MBTPS2 51360 21810543 Nonsense c.1508G>A p.W470* uc004dac.1 P7 MYLK3 91807 45320522 Missense c.1803A>T P.I563F uc002eei.2 P7 MYOC 4653 169888292 Nonsense c.105G>A p.W28* uc001 ghu.1 P7 ONECUT2 9480 53254407 Missense c.493T>C p.L154P uc002lgo.1 P7 PAMR1 25891 35410637 Missense c.2100C>T p.A686V uc001 mwf.1 P7 PCDHA10 56139 140217127 Missense c.1310C>G p.T437R uc003lhx.1 P7 PCDHGB3 56102 140731583 Missense c.1438G>A p.D480N uc003ljw.1 P7 POT1 25913 124290777 Missense c.1010C>T p.R137C uc003vlm.1 P7 RARS 5917 167866405 Missense c.1378G>A p.G446E uc003lzx.1 P7 SPIRE1 56907 12496637 Nonsense c.858C>T p.R271 * uc002kre.1 P7 TMC2 1 17532 2523528 Missense c.1006G>A p.G331 R uc002wgf.1 P7 ZDBF2 57683 206881 135 Missense c.3888G>A p.R1213Q uc002vbp.2 P7 ASH2L 9070 38082335 Missense c.168C>T p.A37V uc003xkt.2 P8 ATM 472 107695947 Frame_Shift_Del c.6789 6789delT p.L2135fs uc001 pkb.1 P8 COL22A1 169044 139728095 Missense c.3907C>G p.P1 154A uc003yvd.1 P8 DMXL2 23312 49582517 Missense c.2995G>A p.A924T uc002abf.1 P8 DYRK1 A 1859 37784464 Missense c.857T>G p.L261 R uc002ywk.1 P8 GADL1 339896 30817419 Missense c.1263G>C p.E406Q uc003ceq.1 P8 GNB1 2782 1727802 Missense c.571 T>C P.I80T uc001 aif.1 P8 GRID2 2895 94909513 Missense c.2748C>A P.S830R uc003hsz.2 P8 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID HPS5 1 1234 182901 1 1 Missense c.423T>G p.L49V uc001 mod.1 P8 ITGA5 3678 53099099 Frame_Shift_Del c.213 219delCCA p.P49fs uc001 sga.1 P8 LILRA4 23547 59541523 Missense c.368C>T p.A104V uc002qfj.1 P8 MAMDC2 256691 71936324 Missense c.1564C>T p.P324S uc004ahm.1 P8 SF3B1 23451 197974856 Missense c.2273G>A p.G742D uc002uue.1 P8 TMPRSS9 360200 2356419 Missense c.616G>T p.G206C uc002lvw.1 P8 ANKRD26 22852 27358293 Splice_Site_SNP c.e26 splice site uc009xku.1 P9 BCR 613 21853993 Missense c.1442C>G P.I282M uc002zww.1 P9 CBARA1 10367 73937975 Missense c.735G>A p.G201 E uc001jtb.1 P9 CD14 929 139991681 Missense c.1426T>C p.S358P uc003lgi.1 P9 DIS3 22894 72245834 Nonsense c.1602A>T p.R410* uc001vix.2 P9 GBF1 8729 104129636 Missense c.5050A>T P.I1604F uc001 kux.1 P9 GJB2 2706 19661627 Missense c.309C>T p.R32C uc001 umy.1 P9 GNB2 2783 1001 13730 Missense c.829T>G p.S191 A uc003uwb.1 P9 HECTD1 25831 30712649 Missense c.1207A>G p.M240V uc001wrc.1 P9 IGSF22 283284 18695022 Missense c.1265G>T p.V359L uc009yht.1 P9 IQGAP1 8826 88785740 Splice_Site_SNP c.e8 splice site uc002bpl.1 P9 MED12 9968 70256023 Missense c.374G>C p.A59P uc004dyy.1 P9 MMP16 4325 89200142 Missense c.1056T>A p.N258K uc003yeb.2 P9 PLSCR1 5359 147722532 Splice_Site_SNP c.e6_splice_site uc003evx.2 P9 REV1 51455 99388904 Missense c.2923C>T p.T904l uc002tad.1 P9 RHO 6010 130734178 Missense c.904G>A p.S270N uc003emt.1 P9 SH3BP4 23677 235627037 Nonsense c.3123C>G p.Y910* uc002wp.1 P9 SLC7A4 6545 19715741 Missense c.429A>G p.N121 D uc002zud.1 P9 SNX19 399979 130255889 Missense c.3144A>G p.N866D uc001 qgk.2 P9 TET1 80312 70074858 Missense c.2871 A>T p.N789l uc001jok.2 P9 TP53 7157 7518243 Missense c.957A>T P.I255F uc002gim.2 P9 TTC7A 57217 47127944 Frame_Shift_Del c.2323_2323delA p.Q652fs uc010fbb.1 P9 UBR5 51366 103385535 Missense c.2899C>G p.L956V uc003ykr.1 P9 ZSCAN18 65982 63292018 Splice_Site_SNP c.e3_splice_site uc002qrh.1 P9 CELSR2 1952 109594496 Missense c.333G>A p.R91 K uc001 dxa.2 P10 CEMP1 752014 2520913 Missense c.519A>G p.K55E uc002cqr.2 P10 FAM155B 271 12 68666141 Missense c.1084T>G p.L346V uc004dxk.1 P10 FAT4 79633 126592681 Missense c.1 1060A>G p.D3687G uc003ifj.2 P10 HSPA4L 22824 128946323 Missense c.1422G>A p.R390H uc003ifm.1 P10 LRRC56 1 15399 541685 Frame_Shift_lns c.1320 1321 insT p.D277fs uc001 lpw.1 P10 MET 4233 1 16126605 Missense c.418C>A p.D77E uc010lkh.1 P10 MYL5 4636 664336 Missense c.436A>C p.M1 1 1 L uc003gav.1 P10 NTN3 4917 2463275 Missense c.1476C>T p.P425S uc002cqj.1 P10 PRKCI 5584 171496391 Splice_Site_SNP c.e15_splice_site uc003fgs.2 P10 TMPRSS6 164656 35794601 Splice_Site_SNP c.e17_splice_site uc003aqt.1 P10 UBA1 7317 46958727 Missense c.3047A>G p.N966D uc004dhj.2 P10 WDFY3 23001 85920389 Missense c.4669G>A p.A1421 T uc003hpd.1 P10 ZNF423 23090 48227712 Missense c.3150C>T p.T951 M uc002efs.1 P10 CDH23 64072 73170595 Missense c.4876C>T p.S1500F uc001jrx.2 P10 DIS3 22894 72235744 Missense c.2347A>G p.E658G uc001vix.2 P10 DSCAML1 57453 1 16897252 Missense c.1 198C>T p.T399M uc001 prh.1 P1 1 GDF15 9518 18360107 Missense c.321 T>G p.S97A uc002niv.2 P1 1 HCFC1 R1 54985 3013266 Frame_Shift_lns c.382_383insC p.P83fs uc002csx.1 P1 1 HK3 3101 176248421 Missense c.1039T>G p.V322G uc003mfa.1 P1 1 LOXL4 84171 100010861 Missense c.621 A>G p.E157G uc001 kpa.1 P1 1 MST1 4485 49699802 Missense c.440A>C p.K143Q uc003cxg.1 P1 1 NIPA1 123606 20612340 Missense c.258T>G p.V78G uc001 yvc.1 P1 1 NME6 10201 48315016 Missense c.65A>G p.S7G uc003cso.1 P1 1 PTGIR 5739 51816468 Missense c.1 183T>G p.V357G uc002pex.1 P1 1 RUNDC3B 154661 87167736 Missense c.762G>T p.C1 18F uc003ujb.1 P1 1 SALL4 57167 49841374 Missense c.1 156C>T p.A352V uc002xwh.2 P1 1 SPTB 6710 64323005 Missense c.3485A>G p.E1 144G uc001 xhr.1 P1 1 STARD13 90627 32585045 Missense c.2424C>G p.Q769E uc001 uuw.1 P1 1 TAS1 R2 80834 1903941 1 Missense c.1790C>T p.R597C uc001 bba.1 P1 1 ATRX 546 76794441 Frame_Shift_lns c.4607 4608insC p.E1459fs uc004ecp.2 P12 CXorf22 170063 35898921 Missense c.1989T>A p.Y644N uc004ddj.1 P12 DZIP1 L 199221 139273352 Missense c.1801 T>C p.S480P uc003erq.1 P12 ELMOD2 255520 141678014 Splice_Site_SNP c.e5_splice_site uc003iik.1 P12 FAM47A 158724 34059355 Missense c.995C>T p.P321 L uc004ddg.1 P12 FBXW7 55294 153466739 Missense c.1662C>T p.R505C uc003ims.1 P12 GALNT13 1 14805 154806955 Missense c.582G>T p.D160Y uc002tyt.2 P12 ITIH2 3698 7812013 Missense c.1534G>A p.D458N uc001 ijs.1 P12 KCNA2 3737 1 10948749 Missense c.675G>A p.G60E uc001 dzu.1 P12 LTB 4050 31657349 Missense c.208T>C P.I67T uc003nul.1 P12 MLL5 55904 104534235 Missense c.3161 T>G p.F876C uc003vcm.1 P12 MRPS14 63931 173259164 Missense c.21 G>A p.A2T uc001 gkk.1 P12 NAV2 89797 20023535 Missense c.4075T>A p.D1238E uc009yhw.1 P12 NOBOX 135935 143729428 Frame Shift Ins c.487 488insC p.R163fs uc003wen.1 P12 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID NUDT9 53343 88575339 Missense c.613T>C p.V97A uc003hqq.1 P12 SLITRK4 139065 1425441 18 Missense c.2849C>A p.L825l uc004fbx.1 P12 SUV420H1 51 1 1 1 67695088 Missense c.1203A>G p.N316S uc001 onm.1 P12 TRHDE 29953 71343212 Missense c.3141 C>A p.F1015L uc001 sxa.1 P12 CCDC99 54908 168960894 Missense c.1636C>T p.R453C uc003mae.2 P13 CELSR2 1952 109615413 Missense c.7709C>T p.R2550W uc001 dxa.2 P13 DNTTIP1 1 16092 43854757 Missense c.208T>G p.V47G uc002xpk.1 P13 EEF1 D 1936 144733919 Missense c.1989C>T p.A587V uc003yyq.1 P13 EGF 1950 1 1 1 151823 Missense c.993T>C p.L251 P uc010imk.1 P13 HIGD1 C 613227 49650547 Frame_Shift_lns c.285_286insA p.S95fs uc009zlu.1 P13 KIAA2022 340533 73876738 Missense c.4693A>G p.E1460G uc004eby.1 P13 KRT5 3852 51200162 Missense c.349C>G p.S62R uc001 san.1 P13 MAOA 4128 43456087 Missense c.512G>A p.A1 1 1 T uc004dfy.1 P13 MPEG1 219972 58736287 Missense c.784G>A p.D210N uc001 nnu.2 P13 NISCH 1 1 188 52499853 Missense c.3840A>G p.N1236D uc003ded.2 P13 POLA1 5422 24645622 Missense c.918A>G p.S299G uc004dbl.1 P13 PTX3 5806 158643184 Missense c.101 1 G>A p.A290T uc003fbl.2 P13 RFX7 64864 54175584 Missense c.1634C>T p.S545L uc010bfn.1 P13 SDCCAG3 10807 138418948 Frame_Shift_lns c.1228 1229insT p.A341fs uc004chi.1 P13 TAF1 6872 70519409 Missense c.1850G>T p.G600V uc004dzt.2 P13 TEKT1 83659 6644089 Missense c.1348G>A p.R413H uc002gdt.1 P13 TMEM8A 58986 362109 Missense c.2324G>A p.S732N uc002cgu.2 P13 USF1 7391 159279072 De_novo_Start_OutOf Frame c.266C>A uc001 fxj.1 P13 ZC3H12B 340554 64633878 Splice_Site_SNP c.e2_splice_site uc010nko.1 P13 ZMYM3 9203 70378786 Missense c.3848G>C p.S1254T uc004dzh.1 P13 ZNF253 56242 19863281 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4_splice_site uc002noj.1 P13 ADPRHL1 1 13622 1 13146822 Missense c.385G>T P.D100Y uc001vtq.1 P14 C3orf59 151963 194000064 Missense c.602G>A p.R92Q uc003fsz.1 P14 EML4 27436 42410840 Missense c.3171 C>A p.P979T uc002rsi.1 P14 FLNA 2316 153231043 Frame_Shift_lns c.7885_7886insC p.Q2546fs uc004fkk.2 P14 KBTBD8 84541 67141034 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4_splice_site uc003dmy.1 P14 KIT 3815 55290365 Missense c.2185G>T p.A700S uc01 Oigr.1 P14 MATR3 9782 138689749 Splice_Site_SNP c.e15_splice_site uc003ldw.1 P14 MSH4 4438 76086496 Missense c.1218C>G p.L393V uc001 dhd.1 P14 NCOA4 8031 51250888 Missense c.478A>T p.L1 1 1 F uc009xon.1 P14 PRAMEF10 343071 12875552 Missense c.1280G>A p.G403R uc001 auo.1 P14 SIGLEC1 6614 3618723 Frame_Shift_lns c.4779_4780insC p.P1593fs uc002wja.1 P14 COL1 A2 1278 93866333 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4 splice site uc003ung.1 P15 CSMD1 64478 3598920 Nonsense c.1261 C>T p.R291 * uc010lrh.1 P15 KBTBD4 55709 47555943 Missense c.975T>G p.V87G uc001 nfw.1 P15 PLK2 10769 57788768 Frame_Shift_lns .1 131 1 132insT p.L335fs uc003jrn.1 P15 SAFB2 9667 5541342 Frame_Shift_lns c.2683 2684insG p.G824fs uc002mcd.1 P15 TBX4 9496 56912280 Missense c.1002T>A P.I280N uc010ddo.1 P15 TPST2 8459 25267466 Frame_Shift_lns c.363_364insG p.A44fs uc003acx.1 P15 TRAF3 7187 102408006 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4_splice_site uc001 ymc.1 P15 ZAP70 7535 97707106 Frame_Shift_Del c.382_382delT p.F59fs uc002syd.1 P15 ACADSB 36 124789970 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4_splice_site uc001 lhb.1 P16 CLCN3 1 182 170854913 Splice_Site_SNP c.e9 splice site uc003ish.1 P16 DLG5 9231 79251231 Missense c.3087G>A p.R1006K uc001jzk.1 P16 EIF3E 3646 109316509 Splice_Site_SNP c.e5 splice site uc003ymu.1 P16 ELF4 2000 129035759 Nonsense c.671 G>T p.E96* uc004evd.2 P16 FGFRL1 53834 1008365 Missense c.1 146C>T p.R329C uc003gce.1 P16 FUBP1 8880 78205334 Frame_Shift_lns c.418_419insG p.G1 10fs uc001 dii.1 P16 GABRG3 2567 25446672 Splice_Site_SNP c.e9 splice site uc001 zbg.1 P16 HSPA8 3312 122435409 Missense c.1 180G>A p.A368T uc001 pyo.1 P16 IDH1 3417 208816465 Missense c.875G>A p.S210N uc002vcs.1 P16 MMD 23531 50836125 Splice_Site_SNP c.e5 splice site uc002iui.1 P16 MTMR3 8897 28733305 Missense c.1202T>G p.F292V uc003agv.2 P16 MUC16 94025 8950417 Missense c.2602G>A p.E800K uc002mkp.1 P16 NF1 4763 26565668 Missense c.1799A>G p.Y489C uc002hgg.1 P16 NOL1 1 25926 63166121 Missense c.1873T>C p.Y624H uc002jgd.1 P16 NRCAM 4897 107623450 Missense c.1925C>A p.T485N uc003vfb.1 P16 OSBPL3 26031 24821349 Splice_Site_SNP c.e19 splice site uc003sxf.1 P16 PAPPA 5069 1 18169807 Missense c.4939G>A p.V1520M uc004bjn.1 P16 POLRMT 5442 581069 Missense c.349A>G p.D98G uc002lpf.1 P16 PUM1 9698 3121 1608 Missense c.2133C>A p.P668T uc001 bsk.1 P16 ZNF251 90987 145917948 Missense c.2162C>G p.Q636E uc003zdv.2 P16 ABCB1 5243 87052934 Splice_Site_SNP c.e5_splice_site uc003uiz.1 P17 ATM 472 107660172 Missense c.4140A>T p.Y1252F uc001 pkb.1 P17 BTAF1 9044 93746104 Splice_Site_SNP c.e24_splice_site uc001 khr.1 P17 DCBLD1 285761 1 17968864 Missense c.1465C>T p.S447L uc003pxs.1 P17 FAM123A 219287 24642073 Missense c.1785C>T p.P562L uc001 uqb.1 P17 FAT4 79633 126458429 Missense c.1413T>G p.H471 Q uc003ifj.2 P17 GART 2618 33805432 Missense c.2398G>C P.E771 Q uc002yrx.1 P17 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID GPR126 5721 1 142756724 Splice_Site_SNP c.e9_splice_site uc010khe.1 P17 LRRC56 1 15399 541786 Frame_Shift_Del c.1421 1421 delA p.E31 1fs uc001 lpw.1 P17 MYD88 4615 38157645 Missense c.794T>C p.L265P NM_002468 P17 MYH9 4627 3501 1944 Missense c.5247A>G p.E1688G uc003apg.1 P17 PKDCC 91461 42135942 Frame_Shift_Del c.714_714delG p.W177fs uc002rsg.1 P17 SLC1 A1 6505 4573063 Missense c.1455G>A p.G407R uc003zij.1 P17 SLC6A16 28968 54505523 Missense c.706T>G p.F158V uc002pmz.1 P17 USP10 9100 83336655 Missense c.1209C>T p.P356L uc002fii.1 P17 ZBTB1 1 27107 102866877 Missense c.1474T>A P.I415K uc003dve.2 P17 ARHGAP30 257106 159287940 Missense c.1554G>A p.R403H uc001fxl.1 P18 ATAD2B 54454 23896161 Missense c.2521 T>G p.S743A uc002rek.2 P18 BNC1 646 81723850 Missense c.1245A>C p.K386T uc002bjt.1 P18 C1 orf128 57095 23984842 Missense c.535A>T p.L137F uc001 bhq.1 P18 C1 orf38 9473 28079147 Missense c.669T>A p.M214K uc001 bpc.2 P18 CDH9 1007 26941951 Missense c.854A>G p.R229G uc003jgs.1 P18 DNAH10 196385 122899375 Missense c.5766C>T p.T1914M uc001 uft.2 P18 DNAH9 1770 1 1637610 Missense c.8195T>G p.H2709Q uc002gne.1 P18 DOCK4 9732 1 1 1274412 Missense c.2749G>A p.R827Q uc003vfy.1 P18 EMID2 136227 100877683 Splice_Site_SNP c.e3_splice_site uc003uyo.1 P18 ENPP1 5167 132227337 Splice_Site_SNP c.e10 splice site uc003qcx.2 P18 FCER2 2208 7660294 Missense c.929A>C p.T251 P uc002mhm.1 P18 FLJ43860 389690 142552196 Missense c.1886G>A p.R602Q uc003ywi.2 P18 GJA3 2700 19615309 Missense c.291 C>T p.A40V uc001 umx.1 P18 GXYLT2 727936 73089128 Missense c.91 1 A>C p.K304T uc003dpg.1 P18 HMCN1 83872 184353212 Splice_Site_SNP c.e77 splice site uc001 grq.1 P18 IL26 55801 66905537 Missense c.217T>A P.I61 K uc001 stx.1 P18 ITGB1 3688 33249301 Missense c.1 147A>T P.I383F uc001 iwq.2 P18 ITGB1 3688 33251621 Missense c.991 A>T p.1331 F uc001 iwq.2 P18 KALRN 8997 125903617 Missense c.8139T>G p.F2680C uc003ehg.1 P18 KLKB1 3818 187410194 Missense c.1245G>A p.V392l uc003iyy.1 P18 LPA 4018 160936387 Missense c.3578C>G p.S1 153C uc003qtl.1 P18 MARK2 201 1 63414276 Missense c.369G>T p.C16F uc009yox.1 P18 MYD88 4615 38157263 Missense c.695T>C p.M232T NM_002468 P18 OAT 4942 126090558 Missense c.280T>C p.L58S uc001 lhp.2 P18 OMG 4974 26647400 Missense c.264T>C p.C26R uc002hgj.1 P18 PCDH17 27253 57197163 Missense c.4106T>G p.L1072V uc001vhq.1 P18 SETBP1 26040 40784471 Missense c.1464G>A p.A336T uc010dni.1 P18 SLC12A5 57468 44102661 Splice_Site_SNP c.e7_splice_site uc002xrb.1 P18 SLC8A1 6546 40196091 Missense c.2752T>C p.S910P uc002rrx.1 P18 SSR1 6745 7246564 Missense c.709A>G p.N174S uc003mxf.2 P18 SULT1 C3 442038 108238538 Missense c.478G>C p.D160H uc002tdw.1 P18 TBCC 6903 42821345 Missense c.518T>G p.S149A uc003osl.1 P18 TGM7 1 16179 41373040 Missense c.97A>C p.K31 T uc001 zrf.1 P18 TSPAN19 144448 83937537 Missense c.550C>T p.T150l uc009zsj.1 P18 XIRP2 129446 167809068 Missense c.2938G>T p.G974C uc002udx.1 P18 ACOT2 10965 73106164 Missense c.640T>G p.V156G uc001 xon.2 P19 ADAM22 53616 87601578 Splice_Site_SNP c.e12_splice_site uc003ujp.1 P19 ANAPC4 29945 24993979 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4_splice_site uc003gro.1 P19 EPHB3 2049 185780358 Missense c.2551 G>T p.R705L uc003foz.1 P19 FAT4 79633 126589966 Missense c.8345C>T p.P2782L uc003ifj.2 P19 GPRC6A 222545 1 17234665 Nonsense c.918G>A p.W299* uc003pxj.1 P19 HYAL3 8372 50307803 Missense c.508G>A p.G79S uc003czd.1 P19 M6PR 4074 8987663 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4_splice_site uc001 qvf.1 P19 MAP3K14 9020 40723695 Missense c.309C>G p.A67G uc002iiw.1 P19 METTL9 51 108 21531465 Splice_Site_SNP c.e2_splice_site uc002dje.1 P19 MYCBP2 23077 76559647 Missense c.10825T>A p.N3578K uc001vkf.1 P19 MY03B 140469 170966437 Missense c.2262G>A p.E707K uc002ufy.1 P19 PCLO 27445 82314427 Missense c.14016G>A p.S4576N uc003uhx.2 P19 PDZD1 1 51248 69423689 Missense c.732T>G p.Y163D uc004dye.1 P19 PIH1 D1 5501 1 54642141 Nonsense c.875G>A p.W213* uc002pns.1 P19 PPP1 R12A 4659 78693829 Splice_Site_Del c.e25_splice_site uc001 syz.1 P19 RAET1 E 135250 150253673 Missense c.1 18C>A p.L20l uc003qnl.1 P19 RAI14 26064 34850443 Splice_Site_SNP c.e14_splice_site uc003jis.1 P19 SLC25A28 81894 101361042 Missense c.778C>A p.Q217K uc001 kpx.2 P19 XKR8 551 13 28165660 Missense c.627G>T p.A184S uc001 bph.1 P19 BAZ1 A 1 1 177 34334706 Missense c.1713G>A p.R382H uc001wsk.1 P20 GPR133 283383 130017020 Missense c.722C>T p.H55Y uc001 uit.2 P20 IRF2 3660 185577718 Splice_Site_SNP c.e3 splice site uc003iwf.2 P20 MUC5B 727897 1222539 Missense c.7920C>T p.A2621 V uc001 ltb.2 P20 MYD88 4615 38157645 Missense c.794T>C p.L265P NM_002468 P20 PA2G4 5036 54789956 Missense c.1018C>A p.T200N uc001 sjm.1 P20 PADI4 23569 17557919 Splice_Site_lns c.e14 splice site uc001 baj.1 P20 PCDHAC1 56135 140287209 Missense c.724C>A p.P183Q uc003lih.1 P20 WBSCR17 64409 70523889 Missense c.824T>C P.I275T uc003tvy.1 P20 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID WNT1 7471 47659762 Missense c.547G>A p.V1 17l uc001 rsu.1 P20 ABCA12 26154 215510478 Splice_Site_SNP c.e51_splice_site uc002vew.1 P21 AMBP 259 1 15863569 Missense c.1072A>G p.N270S uc004bie.2 P21 ATP2A1 487 28821082 Missense c.2582G>T p.D800Y uc002dro.1 P21 BEST1 7439 61484025 Missense c.950C>T p.P285L uc001 nsr.1 P21 BPHL 670 3068948 Missense c.327A>G p.T39A uc003muy.1 P21 C4orf41 60684 184833316 Missense c.842A>T p.L222F uc003ivx.1 P21 DGAT2L6 347516 69338638 Missense c.743G>A p.G216R uc004dxx.1 P21 FRMD1 79981 168200785 Missense c.1556C>A p.H497Q uc003qwo.2 P21 GATS 352954 99707409 Missense c.141 T>C p.F45S uc003uua.2 P21 HSD3B2 3284 1 19766663 Missense c.1789A>C p.Y339S uc001 ehs.1 P21 HTT 3064 31 16697 Missense c.3238G>T p.L1031 F uc010icr.1 P21 M0CS3 27304 49008917 Missense c.148T>G p.V44G uc002xvy.1 P21 PFKFB1 5207 54992376 Missense c.921 G>A p.A284T uc004dty.1 P21 PRKRIR 5612 75741455 Missense c.387T>A p.H129Q uc001 oxh.1 P21 PTPN14 5784 212704727 Missense c.314G>A p.V15l uc001 hkk.1 P21 PTPRD 5789 8490768 Missense c.2825G>T p.R705L uc003zkk.1 P21 THBS1 7057 37666983 Missense c.1443A>C p.T422P uc001 zkh.1 P21 TMEM71 137835 133833342 Missense c.328G>A p.R62H uc003ytp.1 P21 ULK2 9706 19625004 Missense c.3145T>G p.V882G uc002gwm.2 P21 ALDH1 L2 160428 103986645 Frame_Shift_lns c.597_598insG p.P192fs uc001tlc.1 P22 ANKRD49 54851 93871 170 Missense c.683G>A p.A182T uc001 pew.1 P22 C15orf59 388135 71819444 ln_frame_Del c.1086_1094delCC p.247_250SRHS>R uc002avy.1 P22 CAD 790 27294389 Splice_Site_SNP c.e2 splice site uc002rji.1 P22 CADM3 57863 157436261 Missense c.1330T>G p.F384C uc001ftk.2 P22 CASC5 57082 38731489 Splice_Site_Del c.e22 splice site uc010bbs.1 P22 CN0T6 57472 179926774 Frame_Shift_Del c.1 147_1 147delG p.K266fs uc003mlx.1 P22 DGCR14 8220 17510249 Frame_Shift_lns .330 331 insAC p.P98fs uc002zou.1 P22 DUSP7 1849 52063271 Missense c.584C>T p.P175L uc003dct.1 P22 EDEM3 80267 182929941 ln_frame_Del c.2910_2939delAG p.840_850LDNQLQE uc001 gqx.2 P22 EL0VL2 54898 1 1 103308 Missense c.584G>T p.Q141 H uc003mzp.2 P22 EPHB1 2047 136450026 Missense c.2895C>A p.A892E uc003eqt.1 P22 GALNT6 1 1226 50045526 Missense c.1090G>C p.A257P ucOOI ryl.1 P22 HAP1 9001 37141336 Frame_Shift_lns c.1015 1016insAA p.A335fs uc002hxm.1 P22 HVCN1 84329 109573510 Missense c.703G>T p.V180F uc001trs.1 P22 ID2 3398 8739889 Missense c.326_327AG>TT p.E48V uc002qza.1 P22 IQSEC1 9922 12952029 Missense c.1538G>T p.R510L uc003bxt.1 P22 ITPR2 3709 26530428 Missense c.6104C>A p.P1896Q uc001 rhg.1 P22 KCNK2 3776 213326342 Missense c.224C>T p.P19S uc001 hkq.1 P22 KIF26B 55083 243597090 Missense c.1237 1238GC>A p.S266N uc001 ibf.1 P22 KRT19 3880 36933621 Missense c.1245A>T p.D368V uc002hxd.2 P22 LAT 27040 28908406 Missense c.990C>T p.S213F uc002dsd.1 P22 LIMK2 3985 29993012 Frame_Shift_Del c.1376 1380delTT p.L341fs uc003akj.1 P22 MACF1 23499 39521533 Missense c.1001 G>T p.G266W uc009wo.1 P22 MAGED2 10916 54854136 Frame_Shift_Del c.789 807delCTC p.T232fs uc004dtk.1 P22 MCF2L2 23101 18440821 1 Missense c.2681 G>T p.R864L uc003fli.1 P22 MPI 4351 72969987 Missense c.88C>T p.A28V uc002azc.1 P22 MURC 347273 102388017 Missense c.648G>T p.R186S uc004bba.1 P22 PCDHB8 56128 140539046 Missense c.1433C>T p.A416V uc003liu.1 P22 PITPNM2 57605 122039280 Frame_Shift_Del c.2963 2963delC p.L942fs uc001 uej.1 P22 PRKCD 5580 53190533 ln_frame_Del c.763_783delCCA p.137_144AKFPTMN uc003dgl.1 P22 PSMC5 5705 59262618 Missense c.1031 G>T p.K330N uc002jcb.1 P22 PTPRM 5797 7945388 Missense c.161 1 C>A p.L370l uc010dkv.1 P22 SH3TC2 79628 148398234 Missense c.970G>T p.C273F uc003lpu.1 P22 SPAG9 9043 46552921 Nonsense c.174C>G p.Y32* uc002itc.1 P22 UMOD 7369 20265034 Frame_Shift_Del c.1324_1325delTG p.C399fs uc002dhb.1 P22 ZNF205 7755 3109866 Missense c.1339A>C p.T402P uc002cub.1 P22 ZNF21 1 10520 62845282 Missense c.1942G>T p.C604F uc002qps.1 P22 ZNF461 92283 41821838 Nonsense c.1477G>T p.E417* uc002oem.1 P22 ZNF846 162993 9729483 Frame_Shift_lns c.1800 1801 insGA p.E423fs uc002mmb.1 P22 ATM 472 107691965 Missense c.6498A>G p.H2038R uc001 pkb.1 P23 CPE 1363 166625050 Missense c.1094C>T p.P273S uc003irg.2 P23 DDX19A 55308 68956002 Missense c.574G>A p.V149l uc002eys.1 P23 DENND5A 23258 9148807 Missense c.2255C>T p.P667L uc001 mhl.1 P23 DHX57 90957 38903839 Missense c.3190G>A p.D1031 N uc002rrf.1 P23 ECT2 1894 173962997 Missense c.878A>G p.K286E uc003fil.1 P23 ELAVL3 1995 1 1438604 Frame_Shift_lns c.427_428insG p.G16fs uc002mry.1 P23 LAMP1 3916 1 13008873 Missense c.415A>G p.N45S uc001vtm.1 P23 MED12 9968 70255426 Missense c.296G>A p.E33K uc004dyy.1 P23 MPDZ 8777 13209623 Missense c.1072C>T p.R341 C uc010mhy.1 P23 SLIT2 9353 20134844 Missense c.1588C>T p.R462C uc003gpr.1 P23 SMYD1 150572 88168522 Missense c.343T>G p.V1 14G uc002ssr.1 P23 ANTXR2 1 18429 81 125009 Frame_Shift_lns c.1599_1600insC p.P358fs uc003hlz.2 P24 BIRC6 57448 32554873 Missense c.6943A>G P.K2270R uc010ezu.1 P24 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID CAMLG 819 134102256 Missense c.152T>G p.V16G uc003kzt.1 P24 CLSTN2 64084 141764403 Missense c.2283G>A p.R758H uc003etn.1 P24 COL9A1 1297 71023190 Splice_Site_SNP c.e21_splice_site uc003pfg.2 P24 DMXL2 23312 49559613 Missense c.6805C>A p.Q2194K uc002abf.1 P24 DNAH8 1769 38991084 Missense c.10042C>A p.L3148l uc003ooe.1 P24 FAT3 1201 14 92171426 Missense c.5616G>A p.V1867l uc001 pdj.2 P24 GEMIN7 79760 50285598 Missense c.537T>A p.F129Y uc002pap.1 P24 GPC6 10082 93478090 Missense c.1433T>C p.V273A uc001vlt.1 P24 HNRNPUL1 1 1 100 46500507 Frame_Shift_lns c.2074_2075insGA p.N595fs uc002oqb.2 P24 HSPG2 3339 22087045 Missense c.716A>T p.R226W uc009vqd.1 P24 KCTD7 154881 65741622 Missense c.945C>T p.P280S uc003tve.1 P24 NAGLU 4669 37949472 Missense c.2262A>C p.N641 T uc002hzv.1 P24 NTF4 4909 54256756 Missense c.452T>G p.V104G uc002pmf.2 P24 PCLO 27445 82423961 Missense c.4533C>G p.T1415R uc003uhx.2 P24 PHF19 26147 12266221 1 Missense c.1631 A>C p.T460P uc004bks.1 P24 PLEKHG4B 153478 216536 Missense c.2331 G>T p.V761 L uc003jak.2 P24 POLG 5428 87674485 Missense c.968T>G p.V229G uc002bns.2 P24 RAPGEF2 9693 160493478 Missense c.3884C>T p.R1 192W uc003iqg.2 P24 RNF150 57484 142088318 Missense c.1484A>G p.N277S uc003iio.1 P24 SH3PXD2B 285590 171813903 Missense c.230T>G p.V20G uc003mbr.1 P24 SLC9A2 6549 102691271 Frame_Shift_Del c.2472_2472delG p.R777fs uc002tca.1 P24 ST6GAL2 84620 106826213 Missense c.828A>C p.N218T uc002tdr.1 P24 TMEM88 92162 7699304 Frame_Shift_Del .196 199delTTC p.F63fs uc002giy.1 P24 TNRC18 84629 5393918 Missense c.2412T>G p.V688G uc003soi.2 P24 ZAP70 7535 97717445 Missense c.1 127C>T p.P307L uc002syd.1 P24 ZNF614 801 10 57210966 Missense c.2036G>A p.G566D uc002pyj.1 P24 BBS10 79738 75265672 Missense c.308A>G p.H75R uc001 syd.1 P25 CCDC85A 1 14800 56273448 Nonsense c.1 1 1 1 C>G p.Y203* uc002rzn.1 P25 CHCHD10 400916 22438440 Frame_Shift_lns c.363_364insC p.Q95fs uc002zxw.1 P25 CHL1 10752 418307 Splice_Site_SNP c.e27_splice_site uc003bot.1 P25 DLX6 1750 96473321 Splice_Site_SNP c.e1 splice site uc003uom.1 P25 EFTUD2 9343 40284618 Missense c.2840A>C p.T937P uc002ihn.1 P25 mm 3697 52787996 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4 splice site uc003dfs.2 P25 LCT 3938 136277987 Missense c.4657A>G p.Y1549C uc002tuu.1 P25 LILRB4 1 1006 59868382 Missense c.1 106T>A p.F239l uc010ers.1 P25 MGAT4C 25834 84897673 Missense c.2212C>T p.T321 M uc001tai.2 P25 MIB2 142678 1554448 Frame_Shift_lns c.2576_2577insA p.E817fs uc001 agg.1 P25 MYD88 4615 38157645 Missense c.794T>C p.L265P NM_002468 P25 RAB1 1 FIP5 26056 73156170 Missense c.2190G>C p.G650A uc002siu.2 P25 SDHAF2 54949 60962050 Splice_Site_SNP c.e3 splice site uc001 nrt.1 P25 SEH1 L 81929 12938134 Missense c.152G>C p.R5P uc002krq.1 P25 SLIT3 6586 168120518 Nonsense c.1875C>T p.R538* uc010jjg.1 P25 ADAMTS10 81794 8556462 Missense c.3017G>A p.V915l uc002mkj.1 P26 ARID4B 51742 233464430 Frame_Shift_Del c.1084 1084delG p.V196fs uc001 hwq.1 P26 CD36 948 80137255 Missense c.1483T>G p.F267V uc003uhc.1 P26 CDK13 8621 40098992 Missense c.3601 A>G p.M1 107V uc003thh.2 P26 CECR2 27443 16383308 Missense c.1 1 19T>A p.S331 R uc010gqw.1 P26 CMYA5 202333 79122587 Missense c.1 1800G>T p.A3910S uc003kgc.1 P26 FAM70A 55026 1 19329145 Frame_Shift_Del c.275_275delC p.P16fs uc004eso.2 P26 KIAA1598 57698 1 18633781 Frame_Shift_Del c.2399 2399delT p.L634fs uc001 lcx.2 P26 MGAT4C 25834 84901503 Missense c.1474A>T p.D75V uc001tai.2 P26 MYRIP 25924 40060572 Missense c.273A>G p.K3R uc010hhw.1 P26 NPAS3 64067 32906141 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4 splice site uc001wru.1 P26 PTPRN2 5799 157063530 Missense c.2617C>T p.R854W uc003wno.1 P26 RAPGEF2 9693 160494480 Missense c.4310G>A p.G1334R uc003iqg.2 P26 STT3A 3703 124979323 Missense c.571 G>A p.R160Q uc001 qcd.1 P26 TMEM195 392636 15566366 Missense c.352T>C p.L61 P uc003stb.1 P26 ZNF677 342926 58432812 Missense c.1 165T>C p.V327A uc002qbf.1 P26 B3GAT3 26229 62145914 Missense c.1 1 1 G>T p.G28C uc001 ntw.1 P27 COL24A1 255631 85973133 Missense c.4927A>G p.T1629A uc001 dlj.1 P27 DACH2 1 17154 85957731 Missense c.1723A>G p.T575A uc004eew.1 P27 DST 667 56465026 Missense c.14344G>C p.E4608D uc003pcz.2 P27 EGR2 1959 64243254 Missense c.1488C>A p.H384N uc001jmi.1 P27 FOX03 2309 108989631 Missense c.843A>G p.K176R uc003psk.2 P27 IGSF1 3547 130246905 Missense c.731 G>A p.C199Y uc004ewd.1 P27 KIAA1632 57724 41733467 Missense c.4809C>T p.P1570L uc002lbm.1 P27 LAS1 L 81887 64664934 Missense c.959C>T p.A296V uc004dwa.1 P27 MICAL1 64780 109874059 Missense c.2808T>G p.W852G uc003ptj.1 P27 MYCBP2 23077 76735819 Missense c.1515T>C p.L475P uc001vkf.1 P27 NOTCH 1 4851 138510470 Frame_Shift_Del c.7541_7542delCT p.P2514fs uc004chz.1 P27 PPM1 A 5494 59819255 Missense c.396C>A P.S100R uc001 xew.2 P27 RAPGEF4 1 1069 173387259 Missense c.491 G>A p.V102M uc002uhv.2 P27 SCN2A 6326 165872675 Missense c.748A>T p.D153V uc002udc.1 P27 SLC5A7 60482 107980751 Missense c.750T>A P.D158E uc002tdv.1 P27 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID TGS1 96764 56861981 Missense c.1357A>G P.I324V uc003xsj.2 P27 UBP1 7342 33409058 Splice_Site_SNP c.e15 splice site uc003cfq.2 P27 ZNF182 7569 47721598 Missense c.1 178A>G p.1278V uc004dir.1 P27 ABCB1 5243 87034082 Nonsense c.903G>A p.W162* uc003uiz.1 P28 ARHGAP21 57584 24948737 Frame_Shift_lns c.2526_2527insG p.E697fs uc001 isb.1 P28 ARID4B 51742 233407765 Missense c.3919G>A p.V1 141 1 uc001 hwq.1 P28 CARS 833 2979017 Missense c.2473G>A p.S800N uc001 lxf.1 P28 COL25A1 84570 109959922 Missense c.1914G>A p.V620l uc010imd.1 P28 FZD5 7855 208340841 Missense c.1278G>A p.V290l uc002vcj.1 P28 KYNU 8942 143428880 Missense c.535T>A p.N135K uc002tvl.1 P28 PCDH1 5097 141229051 Missense c.287C>A p.A57D uc003llp.1 P28 SAMHD1 25939 34978851 Frame_Shift_Del c.998_998delC p.R290fs uc002xgh.1 P28 VWF 7450 5998644 Missense c.4451 G>A p.V1401 1 uc001 qnn.1 P28 ZFP36 7538 44590543 Missense c.403T>A p.S1 15R uc002olh.1 P28 ANGPTL5 253935 101270859 Missense c.1404T>C p.F270L uc001 pgl.1 P29 CPNE3 8895 87632388 Splice_Site_SNP c.e14_splice_site uc003ydv.1 P29 FAT4 79633 126591624 Missense c.10003T>G p.Y3335D uc003ifj.2 P29 FIBP 9158 65408057 Missense c.1 1 1 1 C>G p.P339A uc009yqu.1 P29 HHATL 57467 42709305 Missense c.1604G>A p.R486H uc003clw.1 P29 MAPK1 5594 20457181 Missense c.1 187A>T p.Y316F uc002zvn.1 P29 MAPK1 5594 20457256 Missense c.1 1 12A>G p.D291 G uc002zvn.1 P29 PPP2R3C 55012 34655686 Frame_Shift_Del c.421_421 delA p.S23fs uc001wss.1 P29 PRKCQ 5588 6593051 Missense c.413A>T p.KH OI uc001 iji.1 P29 RHD 6007 25502530 Missense c.990A>C p.Y31 1 S uc009vro.1 P29 SCN3A 6328 165654908 Read-through c.6493T>A p.*2001 K uc002ucx.1 P29 ADAMTSL4 54507 148794535 Missense c.1468G>A p.G437D uc009wlw.1 P30 AVIL 10677 56487479 Missense c.1422C>T p.R465W uc001 sqj.1 P30 CTSB 1508 1 1743148 Frame_Shift_Del c.474_474delG p.G60fs uc003wul.1 P30 HERC2 8924 26151908 Nonsense c.4760C>T p.R1552* uc001 zbj.1 P30 MARK2 201 1 63414276 Missense c.369G>T p.C16F uc009yox.1 P30 NR4A1 3164 50734881 Missense c.1659G>A p.E222K uc001 rzq.1 P30 ZNF697 90874 1 19970191 Missense c.170G>A p.G19E uc001 ehy.1 P30 ZNF804A 91752 185510424 Missense c.2650A>G p.T686A uc002uph.1 P30 ACTL7B 10880 1 10657143 Missense c.889C>T p.R297C uc004bdi.1 P31 BTBD1 53339 81501564 Missense c.985T>C p.F261 S uc002bjn.1 P31 FANCA 2175 88385382 Missense c.1331 C>T p.A430V uc002fou.1 P31 GPAT2 150763 96054010 Missense c.1784A>G p.1521 V uc002svf.1 P31 GRIN2B 2904 13608660 Missense c.2958C>T p.R927W uc001 rbt.2 P31 MAPI A 4130 41601424 Missense c.928G>A p.R154H uc001 zrt.1 P31 MYD88 4615 38157645 Missense c.794T>C p.L265P NM_002468 P31 OR4C12 283093 49959841 Missense c.773G>A p.R258H uc001 nhc.1 P31 PTRF 2841 19 37828403 Missense c.398C>G p.A80G uc002hzo.1 P31 RAB4B 53916 45984445 Missense c.1422G>A p.E182K uc002opf.1 P31 RUNX1 861 35086661 Frame_Shift_Del c.1333 1333delT p.S362fs uc010gmu.1 P31 ZBTB6 10773 124713556 Missense c.706C>G p.S206C uc004bnh.1 P31 CELF3 1 1 189 149946321 Nonsense c.1640C>A p.Y282* uc001 eys.1 P32 CETN2 1069 151747056 Missense c.551 G>C p.K168N uc004fgq.1 P32 CSMD2 1 14784 33784266 Missense c.9235C>A p.Q3020K uc001 bxm.1 P32 EIF2B2 8892 74539853 Splice_Site_SNP c.e2_splice_site uc001 xrc.1 P32 FAM1 17A 81558 45150022 Missense c.843C>G p.S254R uc002ipk.1 P32 GPR87 53836 152495273 Missense c.812C>T p.R151 W uc003eyt.1 P32 IGSF3 3321 1 16944276 Missense c.2604C>A p.F633L uc001 egq.1 P32 KIAA1 109 84162 123380426 Missense c.4184G>T p.R1380L uc003ieh.1 P32 MAP3K12 7786 52167053 Frame_Shift_Del c.487 488delCT p.P130fs uc001 sdn.1 P32 MUC2 4583 1082884 Missense c.1 1816C>T p.T3930M uc001 lsx.1 P32 PHKA1 5255 71717660 Missense c.3890T>G p.F1 197V uc004eax.2 P32 PNKP 1 1284 55062237 Missense c.89G>C p.E13Q uc002pqh.1 P32 RBM19 9904 1 12840590 Missense c.2515C>G p.R81 1 G uc009zwi.1 P32 SF3B1 23451 197975079 Missense c.2146A>G p.K700E uc002uue.1 P32 SGCG 6445 2279281 1 Missense c.738C>T p.A205V uc001 uom.1 P32 SLC01 A2 6579 21336396 Missense c.2300G>C p.A527P uc001 res.1 P32 SPOP 8405 45051434 Missense c.859G>A p.D130N uc002ipb.1 P32 TCHP 84260 108830838 Missense c.917A>G p.E255G uc001tpn.1 P32 USP44 84101 94442635 Missense c.1829T>C p.M562T uc001teg.1 P32 ZNF282 8427 148552323 Missense c.1772A>C p.N556T uc003wfm.1 P32 ZNF664 144348 123063059 Missense c.2245G>A p.G139R uc001 ufz.1 P32 ZNF791 163049 126001 15 Missense c.934A>G p.S258G uc002mua.2 P32 ACSL6 23305 131335216 Missense c.1463C>T p.R454W uc003kvx.1 P33 ADAMTS10 81794 8574766 De_novo_Start_OutOf Frame c.597C>T uc002mkk.1 P33 ANKS6 203286 100570330 Missense c.2017T>C p.S666P uc004ayu.1 P33 ANXA10 1 1 199 169285876 Missense c.230G>T p.A29S uc003irm.1 P33 BTNL9 153579 180412853 Missense c.1001 A>C p.T262P uc003mmt.1 P33 C11 orf41 25758 33561604 Missense c.3798A>C p.N1225T uc001 mup.2 P33 CDH12 1010 221 14407 Missense c.594C>T P.R46W uc010iuc.1 P33 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID CDH5 1003 64981869 Missense c.1000G>T p.V282F uc002eom.2 P33 COL1 1 A1 1301 1031 19877 Frame_Shift_lns c.5357 5358insC p.P1680fs uc001 dum.1 P33 DCLK1 9201 35246793 Missense c.2388G>A p.A726T uc001 uvf.1 P33 DTNA 1837 30599964 Missense c.1 10A>G p.T37A uc010dmn.1 P33 EP300 2033 39877805 Missense c.3235T>C P.I947T uc003azl.2 P33 FOXR1 283150 1 18356625 Missense c.1052T>C P.I276T uc001 pui.1 P33 HCFC1 3054 152878970 Missense c.1522A>C p.T332P uc004fjp.1 P33 HOOK2 2991 1 12744473 Missense c.581 C>T p.T137M uc002muy.2 P33 KCNA10 3744 1 10862914 Missense c.407A>G p.K7E uc001 dzt.1 P33 KRT16 3868 37022385 Missense c.221 T>C p.S28P uc002hxg.2 P33 MAPI A 4130 41604668 Missense c.4172A>C p.E1235D uc001 zrt.1 P33 MAP3K15 389840 19308260 Missense c.2550G>C p.A305P uc004czk.1 P33 MARK1 4139 218893202 Missense c.2473G>A p.V626l uc009xdw.1 P33 NBEAL1 65065 20371 1 189 Missense c.739C>T p.P223L uc002uzt.2 P33 PDE3A 5139 20657852 Missense c.1242G>T p.C407F uc001 reh.1 P33 PI4K2A 55361 99400858 Missense c.663A>T p.K202N uc001 kog.1 P33 PLIN1 5346 88014406 Missense c.531 C>T p.A136V uc002boh.1 P33 SNX7 51375 98923179 Missense c.406G>C p.E47Q uc001 drz.1 P33 TERT 7015 1347170 Missense c.889A>C p.R277S uc003jcb.1 P33 TNNI1 7135 199647223 Missense c.341 G>A p.R1 14H uc009wzw.1 P33 TP53 7157 7517845 Missense c.1012G>A p.R273H uc002gim.2 P33 WNK2 65268 95094762 Missense c.5305C>T p.R1769C uc004ati.1 P33 C9orf86 55684 138854454 ln_frame_Del c.2418 2420delAG p.K661 del uc004cjj.1 P34 CCDC21 64793 26470129 Nonsense c.1818G>T p.E563* uc001 bls.1 P34 DCAF6 55827 166301494 Frame_Shift_lns c.2724 2725insC p.G828fs uc001 gex.1 P34 DNMT3B 1789 30859284 Missense c.2797C>T p.R826C uc002wyc.1 P34 DPY19L2 283417 62240621 Missense c.2396G>A p.A739T uc001 srp.1 P34 E2F3 1871 20595009 Missense c.1322T>C P.I332T uc003nda.2 P34 EGR2 1959 64243338 Missense c.1404G>A p.E356K uc001jmi.1 P34 GAB3 139716 153594097 Missense c.718G>A p.V224l uc004fmk.1 P34 LGR5 8549 70264078 Missense c.2069C>T p.T674M uc001 swl.1 P34 LY9 4063 159050298 Missense c.753C>T p.P235S uc001fwu.1 P34 MLXIP 22877 121 184519 Frame_Shift_lns c.1244_1245insC p.A339fs uc001 ubr.2 P34 MPH0SPH9 10198 122244914 Missense c.1864T>A p.L586Q uc001 uel.1 P34 NDUFA4 4697 10945050 Splice_Site_SNP c.e2_splice_site uc003srx.1 P34 PREX2 80243 69143820 Splice_Site_SNP c.e12 splice site uc003xxv.1 P34 PSMC5 5705 59262461 Missense c.954C>A p.L305M uc002jcb.1 P34 PURB 5814 44890554 Missense c.932G>C p.E307Q uc003tme.1 P34 RBM39 9584 33776456 Missense c.796A>T p.D151 V uc002xeb.1 P34 RPS6KA6 27330 83259120 Splice_Site_SNP c.e10 splice site uc004eej.1 P34 SPCS3 60559 177478252 Missense c.127C>A p.L1 1 M uc003iur.2 P34 SSTR4 6754 22965250 Missense c.1 194G>A p.R377H uc002wsr.2 P34 TET1 80312 70074514 Nonsense c.2527C>G p.Y674* uc001jok.2 P34 TGDS 23483 94026580 Missense c.1092T>A P.I324K uc001vlw.1 P34 TRIM4 89122 99354609 Missense c.482C>A p.H1 18N uc003usd.1 P34 ACPT 93650 55989580 Missense c.916A>C p.T306P uc002pta.1 P35 BRD7 291 17 48920149 Missense c.1039T>C p.F340S uc002ege.1 P35 CMYA5 202333 79068135 Missense c.7863A>T p.K2597N uc003kgc.1 P35 FBXW7 55294 153464851 Missense c.1939G>A p.G597E uc003ims.1 P35 FBXW7 55294 153478425 Missense c.989C>A p.F280L uc003ims.1 P35 H00K2 2991 1 12735564 Missense c.2027G>A p.R619Q uc002muy.2 P35 NC0R1 961 1 15952824 Splice_Site_SNP c.e19 splice site uc002gpo.1 P35 0PRM1 4988 154453921 Missense c.1022A>G p.K324R uc003qpq.1 P35 PAG1 55824 82068007 Missense c.722C>T p.A4V uc003ybz.1 P35 PGBD3 267004 50393887 Missense c.2838G>C p.G895A uc009xoe.1 P35 RABGGTA 5875 23808717 Missense c.873T>G p.F151 V uc001wof.1 P35 RLBP1 6017 87559426 Missense c.774T>C p.S132P uc002bnl.1 P35 RNF213 57674 75940090 Missense c.4637A>T P.I1472L uc002jyh.1 P35 RYK 6259 135377265 Missense c.1552G>A p.C485Y uc003eqc.1 P35 S0RCS3 22986 106927913 Missense c.2228C>G p.H667Q uc001 kyi.1 P35 TCP1 1 6954 3521 1892 Missense c.426A>G p.Y82C uc003okd.2 P35 VPS13A 23230 79171461 Splice_Site_SNP c.e61_splice_site uc004akr.1 P35 WDR72 256764 51784659 Missense c.1208A>G p.Q389R uc002acj.2 P35 WSCD2 9671 107128162 Missense c.1376A>C p.N21 1 T uc001tms.1 P35 ZMYM3 9203 70386657 Nonsense c.1282C>T p.G-399* uc004dzh.1 P35 ZNF648 127665 180293126 Missense c.851 A>C p.T215P uc001 goz.1 P35 ZXDA 7789 57953019 Frame_Shift_lns c.773_774insC p.P187fs uc004dve.1 P35 CDK20 23552 89773928 Splice_Site_SNP c.e7_splice_site uc004apr.1 P36 CDT1 81620 87399944 Frame_Shift_lns .901 902insC p.A283fs uc002flu.1 P36 CXADR 1525 17807360 Frame_Shift_Del c.160_160delG p.V14fs uc002yki.1 P36 FGD1 2245 54513876 Missense c.1258C>G p.P175R uc004dtg.1 P36 IGFBP6 3489 51777969 Frame_Shift_Del c.267_267delG p.E67fs uc001 sbu.1 P36 KLF8 1 1279 56308797 Missense c.1402G>C p.V181 L uc004dur.1 P36 NAV2 89797 19912305 Missense c.2369A>G P.T670A uc009yhw.1 P36 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID NBPF14 25832 146482257 Frame_Shift_Del c.1015_1015delA p.N333fs uc001 eqq.1 P36 RAB1 1 FIP4 84440 26872303 Splice_Site_SNP c.e5 splice site uc002hgn.1 P36 SIX4 51804 60250237 Missense c.1987A>G p.T663A uc001 fc.2 P36 TRIP1 1 9321 91550648 Missense c.1638C>A p.L284l uc001 zy.2 P36 AMPH 273 38469152 Missense c.905A>G p.H279R uc003tgu.1 P37 DACH2 1 17154 85954861 Nonsense c.1462C>T p.R488* uc004eew.1 P37 DDX3X 1654 41089660 Frame_Shift_Del c.2085 2085delT p.S41 Ofs uc004dfe.1 P37 GRID2 2895 94595938 Nonsense c.1906C>T p.R550* uc003hsz.2 P37 IGSF22 283284 186951 10 Missense c.1 177G>T p.K329N uc009yht.1 P37 MCAM 4162 1 18690941 Missense c.241 C>T p.T71 M uc001 pwf.1 P37 MICAL3 57553 16747051 Frame_Shift_lns c.1842 1843insC p.R472fs uc002znj.1 P37 MYT1 L 23040 1822085 Missense c.3750G>A p.A975T uc002qxe.1 P37 POLL 27343 103330004 Frame_Shift_lns c.21 19 2120insAT p.L451fs uc001 ktg.1 P37 PTPRB 5787 69251258 Missense c.3229G>A p.G1062E uc001 swc2 P37 SCN2A 6326 165954314 Missense c.6042C>T p.R1918C uc002udc.1 P37 SF3B1 23451 197975079 Missense c.2146A>G p.K700E uc002uue.1 P37 SUSD4 55061 221603326 ln_frame_Del c.697 699delGCA p.21 22QQ>Q uc001 hnx.1 P37 ZC3H12B 340554 64638489 Missense c.1 162G>T p.A385S uc010nko.1 P37 NEU4 129807 242404444 Frame_Shift_lns c.577 578insC p.V42fs uc002wcn.1 P38 ZMYM3 9203 70389672 Frame_Shift_Del c.246_246delC p.S53fs uc004dzh.1 P38 ABCB5 340273 20749137 Missense c.3374T>C p.V1046A uc010kuh.1 P39 ACSS1 84532 24942689 Missense c.2238G>A p.A454T uc002wub.1 P39 AKAP12 9590 151712279 Missense c.1249G>A p.E354K uc003qoe.1 P39 ALDH1 A1 216 74733730 Missense c.393C>T p.L1 14F uc004ajd.1 P39 B3GALT1 8708 168434477 Missense c.1033C>T p.P228S uc002udz.1 P39 BRD7 291 17 4891 1413 Missense c.1809C>T p.L597F uc002ege.1 P39 BSN 8927 49674601 Missense c.10433G>C p.S3440T uc003cxe.2 P39 C2orf42 54980 70262594 Missense c.356G>C p.VI OL uc002sgh.1 P39 CCDC9 26093 52455748 Missense c.420G>C p.G92R uc002pgh.1 P39 CDHR5 53841 609562 Missense c.1310G>A p.R402Q uc001 lqj.1 P39 CHD5 26038 6108495 Missense c.4189T>G p.D1363E uc001 amb.1 P39 CLCN1 1 180 142758858 Missense c.2732C>T p.P882L uc003wcr.1 P39 CPNE9 151835 9721438 Missense c.286G>C p.V39L uc003bsd.1 P39 CR1 1378 205858200 Missense c.7191 G>A p.D2351 N uc001 hfx.1 P39 CSAD 51380 51852591 Missense c.550C>T p.R79C uc001 sbx.1 P39 DCHS2 54798 155383276 Missense c.5675T>A p.F1892Y uc003inw.1 P39 DNMBP 23268 101638648 Missense c.3301 T>C p.M1070T uc001 kqj.2 P39 DOLK 22845 130748773 Missense c.1061 C>T p.R21 1 C uc004bwr.1 P39 DST 667 56643470 Missense c.1029G>A p.G170E uc003pcz.2 P39 EXOSC8 1 1340 36475070 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4 splice site uc001 uwa.1 P39 F5 2153 167796473 Missense c.674A>G p.N177D uc001 ggg.1 P39 GAB4 128954 15848875 Missense c.769G>A p.A221 T uc002zlw.1 P39 GALNT8 26290 4740568 Nonsense c.1449C>T p.Q453* uc001 qne.1 P39 GRIK5 2901 47238696 Missense c.1356G>A p.E441 K uc002osj.1 P39 HDAC4 9759 239701828 Missense c.2426C>T p.P545L uc002vyk.2 P39 IFNA8 3445 21399358 Missense c.213C>G p.F61 L uc003zpc.1 P39 IGSF10 285313 152648274 Missense c.2185C>T p.R729C uc003ezb.1 P39 JUB 84962 22513160 Missense c.1803G>C p.C476S uc001whz.1 P39 KCNK13 56659 89720462 Missense c.1031 G>A p.V197l uc001 xye.1 P39 KIF7 374654 87977985 Missense c.1 174G>A p.R330H uc002bof.1 P39 LIPI 149998 14476028 Missense c.638T>G p.F210V uc002yjm.1 P39 LRRK1 79705 99385047 Missense c.2783G>A p.V822l uc002bwr.1 P39 LUC7L 55692 196120 Missense c.505G>A p.E132K uc002cgc.1 P39 MARCKS 4082 1 14288354 Missense c.1300C>A p.A302E uc003pvy.2 P39 MME 431 1 1563491 10 Missense c.1786G>T p.K525N uc010hvr.1 P39 PAX8 7849 1 13694145 Missense c.1437T>G p.L424W uc002tjk.1 P39 PELI2 57161 55714897 Missense c.455A>T p.S57C uc001 xch.1 P39 PHRF1 57661 598503 ln_frame_Del c.3175_3186delG p.TRSG1017del uc001 lqe.1 P39 POTEB 339010 19335787 Missense c.881 C>G p.Q172E uc001 ytu.1 P39 PRMT6 55170 107401838 Missense c.907C>G p.N267K uc001 dvb.1 P39 PTPRU 10076 29503025 Missense c.2688C>T p.R860W uc001 bru.1 P39 RAPGEF1 2889 133491472 Missense c.1522C>T p.H455Y uc004cbb.1 P39 RCL1 10171 4831330 Missense c.941 A>G p.D228G uc003zis.2 P39 RNF38 152006 36342814 Missense c.1294C>T p.T368l uc003zzh.1 P39 RPL31 6160 100988954 Missense c.422C>A p.T1 12N uc01 Ofiu.1 P39 RYR3 6263 31865241 Missense c.9425G>A p.E31 19K uc001 zhi.1 P39 SERPINA12 145264 94034466 Missense c.818G>A p.A8T uc001 ydj.1 P39 SLC10A6 345274 87965636 Missense c.880G>A p.G294R uc003hqd.1 P39 TBC1 D8 1 1 138 101037194 Missense c.525G>A p.E132K uc010fiv.1 P39 TINAG 27283 54299621 Missense c.718G>A p.R191 H uc003pcj.1 P39 TP53 7157 7519251 Missense c.598G>A p.C135Y uc002gim.2 P39 U2AF2 1 1338 60864312 Missense c.1486T>A p.M144K uc002qlu.1 P39 UPP2 151531 158682585 Missense c.534G>A p.G1 15S uc002tzo.1 P39 WDR73 84942 82987881 In frame Del .960 977delATG p.DGTRSQ315del uc002bkw.1 P39 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID WNK4 65266 38201821 Missense c.3607A>C p.T1 196P uc002ibj.1 P39 WNK4 65266 38201824 Missense c.3610T>C p.S1 197P uc002ibj.1 P39 WWTR1 25937 150742960 Missense c.639A>C p.N208T uc003exe.1 P39 ZNF556 80032 2828320 Missense c.451 C>T p.R122C uc002lwp.1 P39 ZNF777 27153 148783559 Missense c.651 A>G p.D163G uc003wfv.1 P39 ZNF793 390927 42720002 Missense c.1044C>T p.P201 L uc010efm.1 P39 ABLIM2 84448 8072915 Missense c.1327G>A p.R395Q uc003gko.2 P40 AMOTL2 51421 135563304 Nonsense c.1599C>T p.R439* uc003eqg.1 P40 ASB18 401036 236787746 Frame_Shift_lns c.1098 1099insC p.P366fs uc010fyo.1 P40 BTBD3 22903 1 1848400 Missense c.81 1 C>T p.A151 V uc002wnz.1 P40 CSMD1 64478 3251052 Missense c.2563G>A p.D725N uc010lrh.1 P40 GRIK5 2901 47201867 Missense c.2146G>A p.S704N uc002osj.1 P40 KIAA0226 971 1 198913134 Splice_Site_SNP c.e6 splice site uc003fyc.2 P40 KIAA1 199 57214 79001412 Missense c.2341 G>A p.G694E uc002bfw.1 P40 KPNA5 3841 1 17129873 Splice_Site_SNP c.e6 splice site uc003pxh.1 P40 OR5R1 219479 55941797 Missense c.488C>T p.T163l uc001 niu.1 P40 PTPRD 5789 8474233 Missense c.4010C>T p.TH OOM uc003zkk.1 P40 RGS2 5997 191045917 Splice_Site_SNP c.e2_splice_site uc001 gsl.1 P40 RRP1 B 23076 43935778 Missense c.2164G>T p.V684F uc002zdk.1 P40 SF3B1 23451 197973694 Missense c.2756A>G p.Q903R uc002uue.1 P40 TFCP2 7024 49789182 Missense c.1 165A>G p.K236E uc001 rxw.1 P40 VWA3B 200403 98253575 Splice_Site_SNP c.e22_splice_site uc002syo.1 P40 XIRP2 129446 167823572 Missense c.2458G>T p.R790l uc010fpn.1 P40 C6 729 41 185830 Missense c.2610C>A p.S791 Y uc003jml.1 P41 CASP4 837 104327874 Missense c.404C>T p.H1 1 1 Y uc001 pid.1 P41 CMKLR1 1240 1072101 18 Missense c.1259G>A p.R249H uc001tmv.1 P41 DDR2 4921 160996394 Splice_Site_SNP c.e9_splice_site uc001 gcf.1 P41 DRGX 644168 50244225 Missense c.749G>A p.G250D uc001jhq.1 P41 FBN1 2200 46679698 Missense c.700G>A p.M124l uc001 zwx.1 P41 HERC3 8916 89808138 Missense c.1682A>G P.I506V uc003hrw.1 P41 LANCL1 10314 21 1009349 Missense c.990G>C p.E296Q uc002ved.1 P41 MCHR2 84539 100489018 Nonsense c.999T>A p.Y228* uc003pqh.1 P41 NRXN1 9378 50700770 Missense c.2691 A>G p.Y405C uc002rxe.2 P41 NRXN2 9379 64175636 Missense c.3024C>T p.T862M uc001 oar.1 P41 PCDHAC2 56134 140369551 Missense c.3109C>T p.R957W uc003lii.1 P41 PLEKHG3 26030 64278345 Missense c.2626T>A p.L786Q uc001 xho.1 P41 PMS2 5395 5992931 Missense c.2078T>A p.L664Q uc003spl.1 P41 PTPRF 5792 43836122 Missense c.2270G>A p.V644M uc001 cjr.1 P41 RGS9 8787 60586832 Missense c.335C>A p.N75K uc002jfe.1 P41 RIPK1 8737 3058352 Missense c.2028A>G p.K599R uc010jni.1 P41 SON 6651 33870612 Missense c.6331 G>C p.A1405P uc002ysd.2 P41 SPEG 10290 220056174 Frame_Shift_lns c.5745 5746insG p.S1915fs uc010fwg.1 P41 THUMPD2 80745 39850562 Missense c.462T>G P.I125R uc002rru.1 P41 TP53 7157 7518293 Missense c.907G>C p.C238S uc002gim.2 P41 ATF7IP 55729 14540430 Splice_Site_SNP c.e14_splice_site uc001 rbw.1 P42 C3orf62 375341 49288927 Missense c.530C>A p.A128E uc003cwn.1 P42 CALHM1 255022 105205258 Missense c.929C>A p.H264Q uc001 kxe.1 P42 CNOT1 23019 57150066 Missense c.2437C>A p.A715D uc002env.1 P42 CREBZF 58487 85052735 Missense c.1087C>T p.A278V uc001 pas.1 P42 CSNK1 E 1454 37026883 Missense c.823C>G P.I1 19M uc003avm.1 P42 ECT2L 345930 139243830 Missense c.1812T>A p.V570D uc003qif.1 P42 EIF4ENIF1 56478 30181 144 Missense c.1421 T>A p.N419K uc003akz.1 P42 ELN 2006 731 12274 Missense c.1646G>A p.V519l uc003tzw.1 P42 FBXW7 55294 153468834 Missense c.1543G>A p.R465H uc003ims.1 P42 IFT140 9742 1513671 Missense c.3349C>G p.A1 101 G uc002cma.1 P42 IL17RD 54756 57107155 Missense c.1705G>A p.G539D uc003dil.1 P42 MACF1 23499 39662421 Missense c.1 1735A>C p.R3868S uc009wr.1 P42 MPRIP 23164 16922048 Splice_Site_SNP c.e3_splice_site uc002gqv.1 P42 MUC5B 727897 1227452 Missense c.12833A>C p.T4259P uc001 ltb.2 P42 MYH1 1 4629 15725594 Missense c.4418C>A p.D1437E uc002ddx.1 P42 NOVA1 4857 25987037 Missense c.1810G>T p.V498F uc001wpy.1 P42 PCDHGB7 56099 140778868 Missense c.1403G>A p.V420l uc003lkn.1 P42 PDS5B 23047 32130391 Missense c.486A>T P.I1 10L uc010abf.1 P42 PEG3 5178 62019991 Missense c.1982T>C p.F544S uc002qnu.1 P42 PTPN21 1 1099 88015924 Missense c.1935G>A p.G535D uc001 xwv.2 P42 SIGLEC1 1 1 14132 55153421 Missense c.1673C>T p.L516F uc002pre.1 P42 SRGAP1 57522 62807931 Missense c.2620C>A p.P855H uc001 sru.1 P42 TP53 7157 7517822 Missense c.1035G>A p.D281 N uc002gim.2 P42 TTN 7273 179350895 Missense c.4485C>T p.R1421 W uc002umr.1 P42 ANK2 287 1 14470861 Missense c.301 1 A>T p.S971 C uc003ibe.2 P43 ARL6IP1 23204 18716815 Missense c.292A>T p.M75L uc002dfl.1 P43 BAZ2A 1 1 176 55279361 Nonsense c.5421 C>T p.Q1743* uc001 slq.1 P43 C20orf177 63939 57953517 Missense c.1539T>A p.V375E uc002yba.1 P43 C2orf3 6936 75775063 Splice Site SNP c.e6 splice site uc002sno.1 P43 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID C4orf7 260436 71 134491 Read-through c.341 T>A p.*86K uc003hfd.1 P43 CCDC81 60494 85801 189 Missense c.1759T>A P.I444K uc001 pbx.1 P43 CHD8 57680 20938613 Splice_Site_SNP c.e23_splice_site uc001was.1 P43 ENPP7 339221 75323693 Missense c.676T>G p.V219G uc002jxa.1 P43 ESC01 1 14799 17398202 Missense c.2715T>A p.L594Q uc002kth.1 P43 EVPL 2125 71522748 Missense c.2294T>C p.V689A uc002jqi.2 P43 LAMC2 3918 18146681 1 Missense c.2121 G>A p.E603K uc001 gqa.2 P43 LCE1 C 353133 151044529 Missense c.101 C>A p.T17N uc001fap.1 P43 LRP1 4035 55884745 Missense c.1 1606C>T p.R3714C uc001 snd.1 P43 MITF 4286 70097073 Missense c.1663C>T p.T516M uc003dnz.1 P43 NEUROD1 4760 182251396 Missense c.673C>T p.A146V uc002uof.1 P43 OR2K2 26248 1 13130506 Missense c.29G>A p.SI ON uc004bfd.1 P43 PCLO 27445 82346622 Missense c.13910G>A p.G4541 R uc003uhx.2 P43 PDE1 A 5136 182759004 Missense c.1574C>T p.S475L uc002uoq.1 P43 PLEKHH2 130271 43791228 Frame_Shift_Del c.2421_2425delTT p.F771fs uc002rte.2 P43 PLG 5340 161059381 Missense c.916G>A p.G285R uc003qtm.2 P43 RIPK1 8737 3050831 Nonsense c.1355C>T p.Q375* uc010jni.1 P43 SCML1 6322 17678161 Missense c.855G>A p.R177H uc004cyb.1 P43 SEMA5B 54437 124123960 Missense c.1601 C>T p.P433S uc003efz.1 P43 SF3B1 23451 197975079 Missense c.2146A>G p.K700E uc002uue.1 P43 SPATA19 219938 133217134 Splice_Site_SNP c.e6_splice_site uc001 qgv.1 P43 TBCK 93627 107385230 Splice_Site_SNP c.e1 1_splice_site uc01 Oilv.1 P43 TPR 7175 184581453 Splice_Site_SNP c.e24 splice site uc001 grv.1 P43 TTC3 7267 37426856 Missense c.1468A>T p.S455C uc002yvz.1 P43 VPS13C 54832 59955338 Splice_Site_SNP c.e76 splice site uc002agz.1 P43 ZNF488 1 18738 47990876 Missense c.500T>G p.V1 13G uc001jex.1 P43 C1 D 10438 68127936 Missense c.93A>G p.E4G uc002sea.2 P44 CSMD3 1 14788 1 13632265 Missense c.4534G>T p.A1459S uc003ynu.1 P44 DUSP15 128853 29916435 Missense c.238A>T p.D54V uc002wwu.1 P44 FASTK 10922 150405196 Missense c.1450T>C p.F451 S uc003wix.1 P44 HECW1 23072 43450545 Missense c.1854G>A p.E417K uc003tid.1 P44 HSPG2 3339 22058700 Missense c.5282A>C p.T1748P uc009vqd.1 P44 KIAA0649 9858 137519296 Frame_Shift_Del c.3668_3668delG p.W1040fs uc004cfr.1 P44 LRP5L 91355 24087684 Splice_Site_Del c.e2_splice_site uc003abs.1 P44 MRPL39 54148 25881941 Missense c.1015C>T p.T334M uc002yln.1 P44 NOSTRIN 1 15677 169429609 Missense c.2333C>A p.H525Q uc002uef.1 P44 NSD1 64324 176643469 Missense c.6223A>G p.T2029A uc003mfr.2 P44 PLCB1 23236 8613596 Frame_Shift_Del c.883 883delG p.G294fs uc002wnb.1 P44 PLXNB1 5364 48426925 Missense c.5522T>A p.D1821 E uc003csv.1 P44 PRKD1 5587 29466373 ln_frame_lns c.277 278insTCC p.32 33insSG uc001wqh.1 P44 SCN8A 6334 50431460 Missense c.2364C>A p.T729N uc001 ryw.1 P44 SEMA6C 10500 149379079 Missense c.530C>G p.A77G uc001 ewv.1 P44 SLC04A1 28231 60758516 Missense c.470T>G p.W89G uc002ydb.1 P44 STOX1 219736 70322473 Missense c.2945C>T p.P982L uc001joq.1 P44 ANKRD17 26057 74229410 Missense c.1990C>A p.H625N uc003hgp.1 P45 EPHX3 79852 15199693 Missense c.829G>A p.R249H uc002naq.1 P45 KCNT2 343450 194494121 Missense c.3097A>G p.K1013E uc001 gtd.1 P45 WBSCR16 81554 74127316 Frame_Shift_Del .319 320delGG p.G65fs uc003ubr.1 P45 ZNF496 84838 245558776 Missense c.443G>A p.D136N uc009xgv.1 P45 ADAMTSL1 92949 18816273 Missense c.138T>C p.FI OS uc003znf.2 P46 DKK2 27123 108064750 Missense c.1295G>A p.R197H uc003hyi.1 P46 DST 667 56444018 Missense c.15795A>G p.E5092G uc003pcz.2 P46 IREB2 3658 76573361 Missense c.2542A>T p.M794L uc002bdr.2 P46 ITGA2B 3674 39805263 Missense c.3147G>A p.E1039K uc002igt.1 P46 JTB 10899 152216301 Missense c.775T>G p.W18G uc001fds.1 P46 MYD88 4615 38157341 Missense c.773C>T p.P258L NM_002468 P46 OR13C5 138799 106400824 Missense c.692C>T p.S231 L uc004bcd.1 P46 PATE2 399967 125153035 Missense c.195C>T p.S50F uc001 qcu.1 P46 PTPN3 5774 1 1 1 193291 Missense c.2077C>T p.T685l uc004bed.1 P46 TLK2 1 101 1 58033179 Missense c.2099A>C p.161 1 L uc010ddp.1 P46 ZNF182 7569 47720661 Missense c.21 15G>T p.R590l uc004dir.1 P46 ZNF253 56242 19863538 Missense c.574C>T p.T161 l uc002noj.1 P46 BICD2 23299 94521305 Missense c.1499 1500TC>C p.L481 P uc004asp.1 P47 ENPEP 2028 1 1 1683440 Missense c.2234A>T p.Y631 F uc003iab.2 P47 JMJD5 79831 27133712 Missense c.853A>G p.Q227R uc002doh.1 P47 M6PR 4074 8987663 Splice_Site_SNP c.e4_splice_site uc001 qvf.1 P47 MAPK1 5594 20490147 Missense c.724G>A p.D162N uc002zvn.1 P47 SET 6418 130495886 Missense c.921 C>T p.P227L uc004bvt.2 P47 SLC6A5 9152 20624972 Missense c.2259T>G p.C662W uc001 mqd.1 P47 ZFP37 7539 1 14844902 Missense c.1845G>A p.C606Y uc004bgm.1 P47 ZNF33B 7582 42409608 Nonsense c.91 1 C>T p.Q266* uc001jaf.1 P47 ANK2 287 1 14494351 Frame_Shift_Del c.5228_5228delG p.E1710fs uc003ibe.2 P48 ATM 472 107627803 Frame_Shift_Del c.2022 2022delT p.L546fs uc001 pkb.1 P48 BCL9 607 145558227 Missense c.2382G>A P.G548S uc001 epq.1 P48 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID BRCA1 672 38499191 Missense c.2083G>A p.S628N uc002ict.1 P48 CALR 81 1 12910993 Missense c.205T>A p.F46Y uc002mvu.1 P48 INSM2 84684 35074753 Missense c.1755G>T p.G515V uc001wth.1 P48 KATNA1 1 1 104 149961 169 Missense c.944A>T p.Y300F uc003qmr.1 P48 OR1 L1 26737 124464474 Missense c.809G>T p.R270l uc004bms.1 P48 PC 5091 66374384 Frame_Shift_Del c.2883_2883delA p.P867fs uc001 ojo.1 P48 PDE6C 5146 95408730 Missense c.2257G>A p.D707N uc001 kiu.2 P48 SCN10A 6336 38743465 Missense c.2723A>G p.N908S uc003ciq.1 P48 SORCS3 22986 106897468 Missense c.1633T>C P.I469T uc001 kyi.1 P48 UBE3B 89910 108425285 Missense c.1960G>A p.D453N uc001top.1 P48 VIPR2 7434 158522254 Missense c.884C>T p.A233V uc003woh.1 P48 WHSC1 L1 54904 38306379 Missense c.1773A>C p.T419P uc003xli.1 P48 ZNF536 9745 35627300 Missense c.1 129G>C p.G331 R uc002nsu.1 P48 ACSF3 197322 87694810 Missense c.391 C>A p.R74S uc010cig.1 P49 C3 718 6648740 Missense c.2568C>A p.P836T uc002mfm.1 P49 CACNA1 C 775 248431 1 Frame_Shift_lns c.1469_1470insT p.V386fs uc009zdu.1 P49 CPSF1 29894 145596346 Missense c.1 174G>C p.G242A uc003zck.1 P49 EN01 2023 8854633 Splice_Site_SNP c.e3_splice_site uc001 apj.1 P49 GPS2 2874 7156874 Frame_Shift_Del .1 172 1 172delT p.F303fs uc002gfv.1 P49 LRRC41 10489 4652391 1 Missense c.1249C>A p.T402N uc001 cpn.1 P49 OPRD1 4985 29062032 Missense c.101 1 C>T p.R257W uc001 brf.1 P49 PBRM1 55193 52638056 Missense c.1349A>G p.D446G uc003des.2 P49 PEAR1 375033 155140344 Missense c.1 18T>C p.M1 T uc001fqj.1 P49 PPIL2 23759 20379227 Missense c.1450T>G P.I445S uc002zvh.2 P49 SOD1 6647 31960703 Splice_Site_SNP c.e3_splice_site uc002ypa.1 P49 SPP2 6694 234624182 Missense c.98A>G p.M5V uc002vvk.1 P49 SPTLC3 55304 13003045 Missense c.796C>A p.N169K uc002wod.1 P49 TP53 7157 7519260 ln_frame_Del c.587_589delCAA p.N131 del uc002gim.2 P49 C5orf4 10826 1541801 1 1 Missense c.1 169G>A p.R60H uc003lvr.1 P50 DDX46 9879 134180077 Missense c.2663C>G p.A832G uc003kzw.1 P50 FAM83C 128876 33338434 Missense c.1680G>A p.G521 E uc002xca.1 P50 HMP19 51617 173467064 Missense c.61 1 G>C p.A156P uc003mcx.1 P50 ILF3 3609 10659203 Missense c.1600G>C p.R50P uc002mpq.1 P50 ITGB8 3696 20410824 Missense c.2441 A>G p.E579G uc003suu.1 P50 LRRC32 2615 76049852 Missense c.676C>G p.L145V uc001 oxq.2 P50 MEI1 150365 40510635 Missense c.3272G>C p.A1083P uc003baz.1 P50 MPL 4352 43591008 Missense c.1931 T>C p.L629P uc001 ciw.1 P50 MUC2 4583 1083364 Missense c.12296C>G p.T4090S uc001 lsx.1 P50 MYBPC2 4606 55655181 Missense c.2915C>G p.A955G uc002psf.2 P50 OR10Q1 219960 57752024 Missense c.900G>T p.K300N uc001 nmp.1 P50 PTPRD 5789 8426680 Missense c.4709G>A p.S1333N uc003zkk.1 P50 SIN3B 23309 16850080 Missense c.3151 T>G p.V1046G uc002ney.1 P50 SPINK7 84651 147673154 Splice_Site_Del c.e2_splice_site uc003lpd.1 P50 STIM1 6786 3833690 Splice_Site_Del c.e1 splice site uc001 lyv.1 P50 VSIG4 1 1326 65159001 Missense c.1 156C>G p.C343W uc004dwh.2 P50 BCL9 607 145558977 Missense c.3132C>T p.R798W uc001 epq.1 P51 CCDC147 159686 106156524 Missense c.2373A>G p.K747E uc001 kyh.1 P51 CDH10 1008 24629205 Missense c.484G>A p.R51 H uc003jgr.1 P51 CHKB 1 120 49364755 Missense c.1263A>G p.Q360R uc003bms.1 P51 CLDN5 7122 17891684 Missense c.565T>G p.V32G uc002zpu.1 P51 DAO 1610 107801604 ln_frame_Del c.1074_1085delCC p.LRGA255del uc001tnp.1 P51 DDX1 1 1663 31 129252 Missense c.814A>G p.E188G uo001 rjt.1 P51 DIP2A 23181 46743126 Missense c.762G>C p.A203P uc002zjo.1 P51 HAPLN1 1404 82973138 Missense c.1069G>A p.R333H uc003kim.1 P51 HEATR5B 54497 37069379 Missense c.5921 G>C p.R1942T uc002rpp.1 P51 HEPACAM 220296 124300050 Missense c.617C>G p.L71 V uc001 qbk.1 P51 HSPG2 3339 22077280 Missense c.2714G>C p.A892P uc009vqd.1 P51 KCNK10 54207 87799346 Missense c.560C>T p.R1 19W uc001 xwn.1 P51 KIAA0247 9766 69195053 De_novo_Start_OutOf Frame c.304C>T uc001 xlk.1 P51 ME1 4199 84004180 Missense c.1 107T>G p.V334G uc003pjy.1 P51 PCDH15 65217 55257313 Missense c.4608C>T p.R1405C uc001jju.1 P51 PDE3A 5139 20413828 Missense c.365C>A p.P1 15T uc001 reh.1 P51 PLXNA4 91584 131538055 Missense c.2705T>G p.C826G uc003vra.2 P51 PTCD2 79810 71651988 Missense c.33C>G p.A8G uc003kcb.1 P51 PTPRB 5787 69267212 Missense c.2197C>T p.S718F uc001 swc2 P51 RBAK 57786 5070610 Missense c.1321 A>G p.T333A uc010kss.1 P51 RPS2 6187 1952610 Missense c.786A>G p.R200G uc002cnn.2 P51 SF3B1 23451 197974856 Missense c.2273G>A p.G742D uc002uue.1 P51 STC2 8614 172677727 Missense c.1948C>T p.S213L uc003mco.1 P51 UBASH3B 84959 122165102 Missense c.1216A>G p.M286V uc001 pyi.2 P51 ZC3H18 124245 87171 123 Missense c.238G>T p.D31 Y uc002fky.1 P51 ABT1 29777 26706674 Missense c.672G>A p.R214H uc003nii.1 P51 AN02 57101 5542803 Missense c.2995G>C p.A975P uc001 qnm.1 P52 C9orf150 286343 1281 1410 Missense c.1041 G>A P.R1 13K uc003zkw.1 P52 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID CECR2 27443 1641 1744 Missense c.4366G>A p.A1414T uc010gqw.1 P52 ERCC4 2072 13933620 Missense c.1088A>G p.K360R uc002dce.2 P52 FAM160A2 84067 6189665 Missense c.2967C>T p.R870W uc001 mck.2 P52 GIGYF2 26058 233420510 Missense c.3999G>C p.Q1244H uc002vtj.2 P52 GNB1 2782 1727802 Missense c.571 T>C P.I80T uc001 aif.1 P52 HIST1 H1 E 3008 2626481 1 ln_frame_Del c.274 279delGAC p.DV72del uc003ngq.1 P52 KIAA1045 23349 34962515 Missense c.762G>C p.S184T uc003zvr.1 P52 LPHN1 22859 14131965 Missense c.2070C>T p.R592W uc002myg.1 P52 LPHN2 23266 82225604 Nonsense c.3717T>G p.Y1 167* uc001 div.1 P52 MAGEB4 41 15 30170708 Missense c.619G>C p.V179L uc004dcb.1 P52 MON1 A 84315 49924022 Missense c.783T>C p.M185T uc003cxz.1 P52 MTUS1 57509 17645436 Missense c.2678T>G p.D748E uc003wxv.1 P52 NLGN3 54413 70300751 Missense c.1005G>A p.G234D uc004dzb.1 P52 NLRP3 1 14548 245653155 Missense c.405G>T p.G95V uc001 icr.1 P52 OBSL1 23363 220136503 Missense c.2555G>T p.R833L uc010fwk.1 P52 OLFML2A 16961 1 126612507 Missense c.2067G>A p.V652l uc004bov.1 P52 RFTN1 23180 16394263 Missense c.1074C>A p.N264K uc003cay.1 P52 SI 6476 166247361 Missense c.191 1 A>C p.T617P uc003fei.1 P52 SLC24A3 57419 19612921 Missense c.1200A>C p.T335P uc002wrl.1 P52 TADA2B 93624 7106703 Missense c.435C>G p.A95G uc003gjw.2 P52 TANC1 85461 159662530 Missense c.471 C>T p.S66F uc002uag.1 P52 TAS1 R1 80835 6562125 Missense c.2420A>G p.Y807C uc001 ant.1 P52 TLR8 5131 1 12848204 Missense c.1329G>T p.R393l uc004cvd.1 P52 TMEM45A 55076 101758306 Missense c.450A>G p.E84G uc003dua.1 P52 VGLL1 51442 135458735 Missense c.706C>A p.A179D uc004ezy.1 P52 ZFP64 55734 50134673 Missense c.21 17G>A p.V590l uc002xwk.1 P52 ZHX1 1 1244 124336389 Frame_Shift_Del c.1409 1409delC p.Q327fs uc003yqe.1 P52 AK1 203 129674895 Nonsense c.255C>A p.Y34* uc004bsm.2 P53 ATP6V1 A 523 1 14991359 Missense c.1036G>A p.E324K uc003eao.1 P53 CAMK1 G 57172 207852798 Missense c.1488C>G p.S462R uc001 hhd.1 P53 CUL7 9820 431 14581 Missense c.4720C>A p.L1473M uc003otq.1 P53 DCAF8 50717 158476198 Missense c.809C>G p.S212R uc001fvn.1 P53 DLG1 1739 198279777 Missense c.1422C>G p.C386W uc003fxm.2 P53 FAM71 E1 1 12703 55662825 Missense c.971 A>C p.T205P uc002psh.1 P53 GAK 2580 874327 Nonsense c.1273C>A p.Y358* uc003gbm.2 P53 GTF2H1 2965 18336153 Missense c.1499C>A p.Q447K uc001 moh.1 P53 NEK10 1521 10 27328660 Missense c.776G>T p.V168L uc003cdt.1 P53 SHB 6461 37964819 Missense c.1422A>G p.E285G uc004aax.1 P53 SNX1 6642 62213964 Missense c.1306C>A p.Q424K uc002amv.1 P53 TLN2 83660 60898861 Missense c.6865G>A p.E2289K uc002alb.2 P53 TMC04 255104 19979805 Missense c.276C>G p.P12A uc001 bcn.1 P53 TTF1 7270 134257325 Missense c.1998G>T p.S649l uc004cbl.1 P53 UBR4 23352 19288057 Missense c.14217T>G p.V4738G uc001 bbi.1 P53 ULK4 54986 41263441 Missense c.4012C>A p.Q1271 K uc003ckv.2 P53 WHSC1 L1 54904 38308135 Missense c.1554C>A p.Q346K uc003xli.1 P53 ZNF628 89887 60686239 Missense c.2420A>C p.T619P uc002qld.2 P53 ALG1 56052 5073760 Splice_Site_SNP c.e12_splice_site uc002cyn.1 P54 ANK3 288 61505733 Missense c.5104T>C p.S1638P uc001jky.1 P54 ANKRD30A 91074 37461 178 Missense c.446G>A p.S1 16N uc001 iza.1 P54 AN06 196527 44068315 Missense c.1472G>T p.A424S uc001 roo.1 P54 ASPM 259266 195382133 Missense c.155C>G p.P20A uc001 gtu.1 P54 ATF2 1386 175690980 Missense c.693C>T p.T144l uc002ujl.1 P54 BEND2 139105 18131898 Missense c.705C>G p.P184R uc004cyj.2 P54 C4orf39 152756 166097930 Missense c.381 C>G p.S102R uc003iqx.1 P54 C9orf152 401546 1 12009610 Missense c.625A>G p.E3G uc004beo.2 P54 CD163L1 283316 7440251 Missense c.1783T>G p.V586G uc001 qsy.1 P54 CDCA2 157313 25381826 Missense c.1 194A>G p.T239A uc003xep.1 P54 COL1 A2 1278 93892413 Missense c.3193C>T p.P908S uc003ung.1 P54 CYP4V2 285440 187359341 Missense c.1 142G>A p.E280K uc003iyw.2 P54 DBN1 1627 176817699 Missense c.2030C>G p.T583S uc003mgx.2 P54 FAM129B 64855 129327247 Missense c.534T>G p.V1 1 1 G uc004brh.1 P54 FAM83B 222584 54913393 Missense c.1781 A>C p.E555D uc003pck.1 P54 GDAP2 54834 1 18264329 Missense c.377T>C p.W59R uc001 ehf.1 P54 GPATCH8 23131 39832053 Missense c.2982G>A p.R973K uc002igw.1 P54 GPR135 64582 59000331 Missense c.1482A>G p.D456G uc010apj.1 P54 HPSE2 60495 100364751 Missense c.1280T>C p.L407S uc001 kpn.1 P54 IQSEC2 23096 53296786 Missense c.1898G>T p.G566V uc004dsd.1 P54 IRS4 8471 107864076 Missense c.2233C>A p.P719T uc004eoc.1 P54 JPH4 84502 23109985 Missense c.2572G>C p.A599P uc001wkr.1 P54 KIAA1467 57613 13100124 Missense c.433G>C p.S137T uc001 rbi.1 P54 Ml A3 375056 220867582 Missense c.406C>T p.H133Y uc001 hnl.1 P54 NRG1 3084 32740945 Missense c.1913G>T p.S474l uc003xiu.1 P54 ORMDL2 29095 54499049 Splice_Site_SNP c.e2 splice site uc001 shw.1 P54 OTOF 9381 26555972 Missense c.2093C>T P.R656W uc002rhk.1 P54 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID PLOD1 5351 1 1937535 Nonsense c.732T>A p.L214* uc001 atm.1 P54 WDR78 79819 67071951 Missense c.1974G>C p.A640P uc001 dcx.1 P54 ZNF155 771 1 49187582 Nonsense c.263G>T p.E20* uc002oxy.1 P54 8-Sep 23176 132122134 Missense c.1538T>G p.S434A uc003kxu.2 P55 ACBD3 64746 224413665 Missense c.793C>G p.A249G uc001 hpy.1 P55 ADCY5 1 1 1 124504619 Missense c.2697C>G p.S899R uc003egh.1 P55 AOC3 8639 38260200 Missense c.1970C>T p.R604C uc002ibv.1 P55 ARHGEF1 9138 47091286 Missense c.937G>A p.R283Q uc002osb.1 P55 ARHGEF2 9181 154194296 Missense c.1934A>G p.D560G uc001fmu.1 P55 BCOR 54880 39806972 Nonsense c.4436G>T p.E1382* uc004den.2 P55 C17orf64 124773 55861506 Missense c.512T>G p.V34G uc002iyq.1 P55 C6orf27 80737 31844806 Missense c.1709G>C p.A491 P uc003nxb.2 P55 CD6 923 60533671 Missense c.997T>G p.V278G uc001 nqq.1 P55 CHD2 1 106 91300817 Missense c.2509C>T p.T645M uc002bsp.1 P55 DUOX2 50506 4319131 1 Missense c.663A>G p.R154G uc010bea.1 P55 EGFL8 80864 32243180 Missense c.782A>G p.E226G uc003oac.1 P55 EGFR 1956 55191052 Missense c.1 171 C>G p.R309G uc003tqk.1 P55 EPHB6 2051 142274181 Missense c.2234A>C p.T468P uc003wbq.1 P55 FAM120A 23196 95329296 Missense c.1482G>A p.G486E uc004atw.1 P55 FCGBP 8857 45057933 Missense c.14149C>A p.T4714N uc002omp.2 P55 FRMD7 90167 131055783 Missense c.528G>A p.C1 17Y uc004ewn.1 P55 FRYL 285527 48206847 Missense c.8985G>A p.E2794K uc003gyh.1 P55 GJB1 2705 70360607 Nonsense c.420G>T p.E109* uc004dzf.2 P55 GLB1 2720 33074745 Missense c.690C>G p.S191 R uc003cfi.1 P55 GRIN2C 2905 70354510 Missense c.2302A>C p.T716P uc002jlt.1 P55 GUCY1 A3 2982 156870986 Splice_Site_Del c.e1 1_splice_site uc003iov.1 P55 HAS3 3038 67705822 Missense c.1038G>C p.A272P uc010cfh.1 P55 HCN3 57657 15352171 1 Missense c.1229C>G p.S407R uc001fjz.1 P55 HOXA1 1 3207 27190885 Missense c.476T>C p.V135A uc003syx.1 P55 KRAS 3845 25289548 Missense c.219G>A p.G13D uc001 rgp.1 P55 LRBA 987 151946990 Nonsense c.5875G>T p.E1801 * uc010ipj.1 P55 PODNL1 79883 13904594 Missense c.1737T>G p.V488G uc002mxr.1 P55 REPIN1 29803 149700156 Missense c.1257G>C p.G355A uc01 Olpr.1 P55 SFT2D1 1 13402 166663046 Missense c.202C>T p.P58S uc003qux.1 P55 SLC24A6 80024 1 12228736 Missense c.1649G>C p.R480P uc001tvc.1 P55 STOML2 30968 35092804 Missense c.125C>T p.S21 F uc003zwi.1 P55 UNC5D 137970 35660758 Missense c.1050G>A p.R241 K uc003xjr.1 P55 C16orf93 90835 30676404 Missense c.1416T>G p.V362G uc002dzn.1 P56 EPHA7 2045 94013300 Missense c.2870T>G P.I886R uc003poe.1 P56 EXOC4 60412 133230962 Missense c.1840A>G p.D602G uc003vrk.1 P56 PKD1 L1 168507 47863826 Missense c.4492C>T p.H1498Y uc003tny.1 P56 RBM28 55131 127767030 Missense c.285A>T p.D57V uc003vmp.2 P56 SPEF2 79925 35828295 Missense c.4655C>T p.T1515l uc003jjo.1 P56 SYCP1 6847 1 15254564 Nonsense c.1553T>G p.Y448* uc001 efr.1 P56 SYNE1 23345 152597570 Missense c.21057G>A p.E6819K uc010kiw.1 P56 TMEM67 91 147 94869261 Missense c.1476C>T p.P466S uc003ygd.2 P56 TRAK2 66008 201957085 Missense c.2509C>T p.T688l uc002uyb.2 P56 ACTB 60 5535517 Missense c.200G>C p.G55A uc003sos.2 P57 C5 727 122784822 Missense c.3352G>A p.V1 108l uc004bkv.1 P57 C9orf98 158067 134688446 Missense c.1412G>A p.A286T uc004cbu.1 P57 DTX2 1 13878 75950336 Missense c.1400T>C p.S282P uc003uff.2 P57 FAM47A 158724 34059857 Missense c.493G>T p.D154Y uc004ddg.1 P57 GTPBP8 29083 1 14192654 Missense c.165C>G p.P40A uc003dzn.1 P57 MTERFD3 80298 105895678 Missense c.2764G>T p.Q315H uc001tme.1 P57 NAA40 79829 63478517 Missense c.831 G>C p.C235S uc009yoz.1 P57 ODF2L 57489 86625253 Missense c.393T>G p.C16G uc001 dln.1 P57 PKD1 5310 2100723 Missense c.4655G>C p.Q1482H uc002cos.1 P57 PLEKHG3 26030 64268907 Missense c.1491 G>T p.A408S uc001 xho.1 P57 PRKG2 5593 82293862 Missense c.964G>T p.G317V uc003hmh.1 P57 PTAFR 5724 28349788 Missense c.459T>G p.H H S uc001 bpl.1 P57 RPGR 6103 38030527 ln_frame_Del c.2835 2837delG p.889 890EE>E uc004ded.1 P57 SMC1 A 8243 53439984 Missense c.2819C>A p.T917N uc004dsg.1 P57 SON 6651 33849541 Missense c.6183G>C p.R2045T uc002yse.1 P57 TFR2 7036 100066571 Missense c.1 188A>G p.S383G uc003uvv.1 P57 TP63 8626 191069813 Missense c.1225G>A p.R379H uc003fry.2 P57 TTC7B 145567 90225656 Missense c.1053C>T p.R31 1 C uc001 xyp.1 P57 XIRP2 129446 167823940 Missense c.2826G>A p.V913l uc010fpn.1 P57 XKR5 389610 6666955 Missense c.675T>G p.V218G uc003wqp.1 P57 ATP8A2 51761 25015445 Missense c.938C>T p.P266S uc001 uqk.1 P58 CDC14B 8555 98324609 Missense c.1795C>G p.T448R uc004awj.1 P58 CELF4 56853 33109144 Missense c.905G>A p.R170H uc002lae.2 P58 CYB5R4 51 167 84687597 Missense c.774A>T p.L214F uc003pkf.1 P58 DAB2 1601 3941 1864 Missense c.2770C>A p.Q747K uc003jlx.2 P58 DNER 92737 229980218 Missense c.1844C>T P.T566M uc002vpv.1 P58 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID GATA5 140628 60473859 Missense c.1032G>C p.A324P uc002ycx.1 P58 GCNT4 51301 74361401 Missense c.1079G>C p.C73S uc003kdn.1 P58 IMPG1 3617 76771906 Missense c.1083C>T p.P318L uc003pik.1 P58 MLL5 55904 104539509 Missense c.4604C>T p.P1357L uc003vcm.1 P58 MNS1 55329 54510964 Missense c.1459T>G p.L432V uc002adr.1 P58 MYC 4609 128819862 Missense c.741 A>G p.T73A uc003ysi.1 P58 MY09A 4649 69957617 Missense c.6222G>A p.G1917R uc002atl.2 P58 PREPL 9581 44413214 Missense c.1276C>T p.P414L uc002ruf.1 P58 SF3B1 23451 197974958 Missense c.2267G>A p.G740E uc002uue.1 P58 SREBF1 6720 17663713 Missense c.859C>T p.S222F uc002grt.1 P58 SRRM3 222183 75732067 Missense c.932G>C p.K241 N uc003uer.2 P58 8-Sep 23176 132122134 Missense c.1538T>G p.S434A uc003kxu.2 P59 ABCC9 10060 21980741 Missense c.155G>T p.L45F uc001 rfh.1 P59 ACACB 32 108174243 Missense c.5919C>G p.R1934G uc001tob.1 P59 ADH1 C 126 100479799 Missense c.1 146A>G p.E354G uc003huu.1 P59 ALS2 57679 202278388 Missense c.4821 A>C p.K1541 T uc002uyo.1 P59 AMBN 258 71497342 Missense c.197G>A p.S41 N uc003hfl.1 P59 ARAP3 6441 1 141021488 Missense c.3144C>G p.C1022W uc003llm.1 P59 ASPM 259266 195364414 Missense c.2862G>A p.S922N uc001 gtu.1 P59 ATXN7L3 56970 39630128 Missense c.441 A>C p.N1 17T uc002ifz.1 P59 BAT2L1 84726 133342991 Missense c.4501 C>G p.C1482W uc004can.2 P59 C10orf2 56652 102738034 Missense c.733G>C p.G26A uc001 ksf.1 P59 C16orf7 9605 88303277 Missense c.1581 A>C p.T486P uc002fom.1 P59 C16orf79 283870 2199695 Missense c.629G>T p.W151 L uc010bsh.1 P59 CADM2 253559 86093417 Missense c.879T>A p.N293K uc003dql.1 P59 CADM2 253559 86197508 Missense c.1 133T>G p.V378G uc003dql.1 P59 CCDC27 148870 3670243 Missense c.1519C>A p.Q479K uc001 akv.1 P59 CDHR5 53841 608063 Missense c.21 14C>G p.A670G uc001 lqj.1 P59 CDK17 5128 95241998 Missense c.631 C>G p.P48A uc001tep.1 P59 COBL 23242 512551 18 Missense c.244G>C p.R20P uc003tpr.2 P59 COL5A1 1289 136806558 Nonsense c.2746C>A p.Y788* uc004cfe.1 P59 CSRP2BP 57325 18071545 Missense c.863C>A p.Q81 K uc002wqj.1 P59 DAZAP1 26528 1385835 Missense c.1337G>C p.G383A uc002lsn.1 P59 DSCAM 1826 40387535 Missense c.4285T>G p.V1278G uc002yyq.1 P59 ERBB2IP 55914 65410018 Nonsense c.4209C>A p.Y1384* uc010iwx.1 P59 FAM84B 157638 127638104 Missense c.997G>C p.R238P uc003yrz.1 P59 FGF3 2248 69334469 Missense c.996A>C p.T169P uc001 oph.1 P59 FZD5 7855 208341571 Nonsense c.548C>A p.Y46* uc002vcj.1 P59 GRPEL1 80273 71 13630 Missense c.555C>T p.P172S uc003gjy.1 P59 HEATR7B2 133558 41054271 Missense c.3182G>T p.V898F uc003jmj.2 P59 HIST1 H1 T 3010 26216200 Missense c.144G>C p.S34T uc003ngj.1 P59 HMG20A 10363 75557872 Missense c.1073T>G p.V291 G uc002bcr.1 P59 INSL3 3640 17788847 Missense c.312A>G p.R103G uc010ebf.1 P59 ITGA10 8515 144239962 Missense c.478C>G p.S134R uc001 eoa.1 P59 ITGAX 3687 31298601 Missense c.2958A>C p.D964A uc002ebt.2 P59 KCNK15 60598 42808189 Missense c.288G>C p.G75A uc002xmr.1 P59 KIAA1267 284058 41472921 Missense c.2282A>C p.T733P uc002ikb.1 P59 LANCL3 347404 37403650 Missense c.1016G>T p.L238F uc004ddp.1 P59 LMTK2 22853 97661455 Missense c.4035T>C p.S1248P uc003upd.1 P59 MAPK7 5598 19224729 Missense c.968G>C p.R205P uc002gvn.1 P59 MLPH 79083 238125802 Missense c.1986G>C p.A587P uc002vwt.1 P59 MYH4 4622 10308535 Missense c.738A>C p.E209D uc002gmn.1 P59 MYOM1 8736 31 19302 Missense c.3056A>C p.T908P uc002klp.1 P59 NANOS3 342977 13849199 Missense c.250T>G p.L46R uc002mxj.2 P59 NUP160 23279 47813840 Missense c.1 125C>T p.A347V uc001 ngm.1 P59 OBSCN 84033 226529063 Missense c.5895G>C p.A1951 P uc009xez.1 P59 PCDHGB7 56099 140777657 Missense c.192T>G p.V16G uc003lkn.1 P59 PITPNM3 83394 6316797 Missense c.1484G>C p.E445Q uc002gdd.2 P59 PPP1 R12C 54776 60315715 Missense c.519A>C p.D168A uc002qix.1 P59 PPP1 R9A 55607 94741 195 Missense c.3455T>G p.V1058G uc010lfj.1 P59 PPT2 9374 32230457 Nonsense c.229C>A p.Y42* uc003nzw.1 P59 PSD 5662 104162257 Missense c.2146C>G p.A540G uc001 kvg.1 P59 PTCH2 8643 45065524 Missense c.2428A>C p.T806P uc001 cms.1 P59 PTPRB 5787 69220938 Missense c.5605T>G p.V1854G uc001 swc2 P59 RALGPS2 55103 177120882 Missense c.1294C>G p.A318G uc001 glz.1 P59 RBM4B 83759 66193265 Missense c.1 155C>G p.C162W uc001 oja.1 P59 RELT 84957 72783321 Missense c.1 105G>C p.A314P uc001 otv.1 P59 RFX2 5990 5967270 Missense c.769T>G p.L204V uc002meb.1 P59 RNF152 220441 57634248 Missense c.841 A>T p.Q143H uc002lih.1 P59 SCML4 256380 108174684 Missense c.640T>G p.V130G uc010kdf.1 P59 SERINC2 347735 31678427 Missense c.1 190T>G p.V347G uc001 bst.1 P59 SETD5 55209 9445684 Missense c.497C>G p.A21 G uc003brt.1 P59 SETD8 387893 122458184 Missense c.1082A>C p.H347P uc001 uew.1 P59 SF3B1 23451 197975079 Missense c.2146A>G P.K700E uc002uue.1 P59 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID SLC35B1 10237 45140157 Missense c.125G>C p.R13P uc002iph.1 P59 SPATS2 65244 48204929 Missense c.2298T>C p.Y437H uc001 rud.2 P59 SSPO 23145 149146122 Splice_Site_Del c.e81_splice_site uc010lpk.1 P59 SYNE2 23224 63520215 Missense c.2239A>C p.N670T uc001 xgl.1 P59 TAF6L 10629 62306382 Missense c.929G>T p.W276C uc009yof.1 P59 THSD7B 80731 137879814 Missense c.2569G>A p.E857K uc002tva.1 P59 TIMD4 91937 156279126 Missense c.1 1 14G>A p.D353N uc003lwh.1 P59 TM4SF19 1 1621 1 197538250 Missense c.377C>G p.C84W uc010iad.1 P59 TMPRSS12 283471 49523108 Missense c.141 G>C p.G32R uc001 rwx.2 P59 UCN3 1 14131 5406125 Missense c.666G>C p.A148P uc001 ihx.1 P59 USP39 10713 85699890 Missense c.341 G>C p.S102T uc002sqe.2 P59 WNT10A 80326 219455261 Missense c.71 1 C>G p.A83G uc002vjd.1 P59 WWC2 80014 184419542 Missense c.1954G>T p.S591 1 uc010irx.1 P59 ZC3H18 124245 87171086 Missense c.201 G>C p.E18D uc002fky.1 P59 ZNF264 9422 62408622 Missense c.619G>A p.G69E uc002qob.1 P59 CAPRIN1 4076 34030556 Missense c.202A>C p.T5P uc001 mvh.1 P60 CHST1 1 50515 103675235 Missense c.878G>C p.A195P uc001tkx.1 P60 CLCN3 1 182 170793687 Nonsense c.542C>A p.Y1 1 * uc003ish.1 P60 CNN1 1264 1 1521223 Missense c.751 A>C p.D196A uc002msc.1 P60 COL5A3 50509 9938022 Missense c.4836A>C p.T1584P uc002mmq.1 P60 CUL1 8454 148094596 Missense c.1326G>C p.R267P uc010lpg.1 P60 DGKH 160851 41632171 Nonsense c.775G>T p.E252* uc001 uyl.1 P60 FLU 2313 128133281 Missense c.252C>G p.A27G uc001 qem.1 P60 KDM5D 8284 20360855 Missense c.891 C>A p.Q202K uc004fug.1 P60 KIF2C 1 1004 45005103 Nonsense c.2105G>T p.E664* uc001 cmg.2 P60 KRTAP19-5 337972 30796183 Missense c.97C>T p.R33C uc002yoi.1 P60 LANCL1 10314 21 1028170 Missense c.417A>G p.T105A uc002ved.1 P60 LGALS8 3964 234768842 Missense c.375C>G p.R59G uc001 hxw.1 P60 LOXL2 4017 23273567 Missense c.851 C>T p.S171 L uc003xdh.1 P60 MAPK14 1432 36103947 Missense c.397A>G p.E12G uc003olp.1 P60 MPDZ 8777 13098980 Missense c.5985C>G p.S1978R uc010mhy.1 P60 MUC2 4583 1083069 Missense c.12001 A>G p.T3992A uc001 lsx.1 P60 NLGN2 57555 7260977 Missense c.1716A>C p.N548T uc002ggt.1 P60 NUP98 4928 3722354 Missense c.1660A>C p.T457P uc001 lyh.1 P60 ODZ2 57451 167554855 Nonsense c.2850C>A p.Y950* uc010jjd.1 P60 PIGT 51604 43487690 Missense c.1620A>C p.N516T uc002xoh.1 P60 PPP2R2C 5522 6431 145 Missense c.248G>C p.S75T uc003gja.1 P60 ROR2 4920 93526125 Nonsense c.2671 C>A p.Y824* uc004arj.1 P60 SCYL2 55681 99209422 Missense c.238T>G p.V63G uc001thn.1 P60 SF3B1 23451 197975728 Missense c.1922G>T p.R625L uc002uue.1 P60 TBC1 D25 4943 48288244 Missense c.388G>A p.G93R uc004dka.1 P60 VWC2 375567 49812926 Missense c.1326C>T p.T257M uc003tot.1 P60 ZNF330 27309 142373133 Missense c.795G>T p.C192F uc003iiq.2 P60 10-Sep 15101 1 109659184 Missense c.1818T>C P.I480T uc002tey.1 P61 ATM 472 107626804 Frame_Shift_Del c.1787_1788delAA p.K468fs uc001 pkb.1 P61 BPIL1 80341 31069818 Splice_Site_Del c.e8 splice site uc002wyj.1 P61 C18orf8 29919 19364517 Missense c.1958T>C p.F613L uc010dlt.1 P61 CDK5R2 8941 219533742 Missense c.1 101 C>A p.T319K uc002vjf.1 P61 CES1 1066 54410992 Nonsense c.970C>T p.R288* uc002eil.1 P61 GPR162 27239 6803460 Missense c.670C>A p.H45Q uc001 qqw.1 P61 HAPLN4 404037 19229935 Frame_Shift_Del c.918_919delTG p.V300fs uc002nmb.1 P61 IMP3 55272 73719132 Missense c.1377G>C p.D145H uc002bat.2 P61 MICALCL 84953 12328035 Nonsense c.2095C>T p.R602* uc001 mkg.1 P61 MKRN3 7681 21362042 Missense c.496C>T p.P7L uc001 ywh.2 P61 SF3B1 23451 197975079 Missense c.2146A>G p.K700E uc002uue.1 P61 SLC6A5 9152 20632917 Missense c.2594T>A P.I774N uc001 mqd.1 P61 SPOCK1 6695 136342286 Missense c.1467G>C p.D426H uc003lbo.1 P61 SPP2 6694 234632271 Missense c.348G>A p.R88Q uc002vvk.1 P61 ZNF527 84503 42571 176 Missense c.496G>A p.A129T uc010efk.1 P61 ALMS1 7840 73466540 ln_frame_Del c.147_152delGGA p.EE27del uc002sje.1 P62 DUOX2 50506 43190176 Missense c.1 1 10C>G p.P303A uc010bea.1 P62 RFT1 91869 531 13134 Missense c.1024C>G p.A326G uc003dgj.1 P62 TP53 7157 7517846 Missense c.101 1 C>T p.R273C uc002gim.2 P62 ABRA 137735 107851012 Missense c.637G>A p.G195S uc003ymm.2 P63 APAF1 317 97595380 Missense c.2417C>G p.H614D uc001tfz.1 P63 C9orf86 55684 138853337 Missense c.1896C>G p.A480G uc004cjj.1 P63 COL4A2 1284 109956830 Nonsense c.4759C>A p.Y1490* uc001vqx.1 P63 CSMD3 1 14788 1 13632184 Missense c.4615A>T p.S1486C uc003ynu.1 P63 DSG4 147409 27226246 Missense c.1085G>T p.W317L uc002kwr.1 P63 GAS2L1 10634 28034328 Missense c.432C>G p.A78G uc003afa.1 P63 GPR1 13 165082 26390905 Missense c.1015G>C p.R338P uc002rhe.2 P63 GPR135 64582 59001 142 Missense c.671 G>C p.A186P uc010apj.1 P63 GPR172A 79581 145554721 Missense c.918C>T p.P254L uc003zcc.1 P63 GRM3 2913 86253850 Missense c.1905C>T P.A269V uc003uid.1 P63 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID KRT26 353288 36181001 Missense c.501 C>T p.T152l uc002hvf.1 P63 LRP1 4035 55876248 Missense c.9279G>C p.G2938A uc001 snd.1 P63 MRM1 79922 32032797 Missense c.660G>C p.V149L uc002hne.1 P63 PRPF8 10594 1524616 Missense c.3283C>T p.R1057W uc002fte.1 P63 RBBP6 5930 24480693 Frame_Shift_Del c.2039_2039delA p.R333fs uc002dmh.1 P63 RLTPR 146206 66238135 Frame_Shift_Del .604 604delT p.Y162fs uc002etn.1 P63 SEMA6D 80031 45848127 Missense c.2183C>A p.P608H uc010bek.1 P63 THBD 7056 22977192 Missense c.1 1 10C>G p.A317G uc002wss.1 P63 ZNF449 203523 134308854 Frame_Shift_Del c.285_285delA p.N49fs uc004eys.1 P63 ANKRD13B 124930 24959220 Missense c.454C>G p.A1 14G uc002hei.1 P64 ANP32D 23519 47152794 Missense c.80G>A p.S27N uc001 rrq.1 P64 DLAT 1737 1 1 1419435 Missense c.1824A>G P.I389V uc001 pmo.2 P64 DUSP27 92235 165353302 Missense c.319A>C p.T107P uc001 geb.1 P64 EIF5 1983 102871991 Missense c.563A>T p.Y14F uc001 ymq.1 P64 ELOVL6 79071 1 1 1 190493 Splice_Site_Del c.e4_splice_site uc003iaa.1 P64 ERBB2IP 55914 65386515 Missense c.3658G>A p.E1201 K uc010iwx.1 P64 FSCB 84075 44044152 Missense c.2057G>A p.A597T uc001wvn.1 P64 GRM7 2917 7595194 Missense c.1750A>C p.K534T uc003bql.1 P64 HIPK3 101 14 33317497 Missense c.1724G>C p.G485A uc001 mul.1 P64 KCNJ16 3773 65616093 De_novo_Start_OutOf Frame c.272 273insT uc002jin.1 P64 MDFI 4188 4172191 1 Missense c.475C>A p.P49Q uc003oqp.2 P64 NRP2 8828 206300937 Nonsense c.1859C>A p.Y356* uc002vaw.1 P64 PER2 8864 238834304 Nonsense c.1683C>A p.Y482* uc002vyc.1 P64 P0P7 10248 100142684 Missense c.557G>C p.A99P uc003uwh.2 P64 SETDB1 9869 149190120 Missense c.2260A>G p.K715E uc001 evu.1 P64 SLC7A4 6545 19715788 Missense c.382T>A p.F105Y uc002zud.1 P64 SPTBN2 6712 66232330 Missense c.1280A>G p.E403G uc001 ojd.1 P64 SRGAP2 23380 204633613 Missense c.863T>C p.V177A uc001 hdy.1 P64 TM7SF2 7108 64638857 Missense c.1360G>A p.V255M uc001 ocv.1 P64 TNK2 10188 197093554 Missense c.986C>A p.R281 S uc003fvt.1 P64 USP34 9736 61369506 Missense c.4581 A>T p.D1520V uc002sbe.1 P64 VIPR2 7434 158595268 Missense c.441 A>C p.K85N uc003woh.1 P64 ACAN 176 87196231 Missense c.2603A>C p.E743D uc002bmy.1 P65 BID 637 16602132 Missense c.808A>C p.T162P uc002znc.1 P65 C9orf93 203238 15961794 Missense c.4256T>C p.M1314T uc003zmd.1 P65 FLG2 388698 150594244 Missense c.2715A>C p.Y881 S uc001 ezw.2 P65 GAN 8139 79953652 Missense c.1 165C>G p.L341 V uc002fgo.1 P65 GRK7 131890 143009376 Missense c.1334A>G p.D417G uc003euf.1 P65 HCN1 348980 45432433 Missense c.1 173C>T p.A383V uc003jok.1 P65 MGA 23269 39815981 Frame_Shift_Del c.4408_4408delT p.A1409fs uc001 zoh.1 P65 NOTCH 1 4851 138510470 Frame_Shift_Del c.7541 7542delCT p.P2514fs uc004chz.1 P65 PLXNA2 5362 206282243 Missense c.4867G>A p.R1370H uc001 hgz.1 P65 PTPRH 5794 60400300 Missense c.2028A>G p.T663A uc002qjq.1 P65 RBM6 10180 50070866 Missense c.2130C>T p.S666F uc003cyc.1 P65 RIMKLB 57494 8817563 Frame_Shift_lns c.1328 1329insC p.E359fs uc001 quu.2 P65 RPLPO 6175 1 19121066 Missense c.676A>T P.I147F uc001txp.1 P65 SLITRK3 22865 166388975 Missense c.2782C>A p.P780T uc003fej.2 P65 SPEN 23013 16128464 Nonsense c.3346G>T p.E1048* uc001 axk.1 P65 SPERT 220082 45185415 Missense c.334C>T p.A85V uc001van.1 P65 TP53 7157 7517845 Missense c.1012G>A p.R273H uc002gim.2 P65 ZC3H12B 340554 64639529 Nonsense c.2202C>A p.Y731 * uc010nko.1 P65 ZFHX3 463 71403304 Splice_Site_SNP c.e6 splice site uc002fck.1 P65 ARID1 B 57492 157264338 Missense c.1852A>C p.Y567S uc003qqn.1 P66 ASTE1 28990 132215847 Missense c.2066G>T p.S620l uc010htm.1 P66 C14orf43 91748 73263919 De_novo_Start_OutOf Frame c.1714C>G uc001 xos.1 P66 CD2BP2 10421 30272477 Missense c.774C>G p.A174G uc002dxr.1 P66 CHRNB4 1 143 76714907 Missense c.245C>T p.R45C uc002bed.1 P66 CNOT3 4849 59339217 Missense c.489G>A p.D60N uc002qdj.1 P66 COL4A3 1285 227867981 Missense c.3638G>A p.R1 159H uc002vom.1 P66 CPS1 1373 21 1 175209 Nonsense c.1843C>A p.Y588* uc010fur.1 P66 DST 667 56579872 Missense c.6010T>A p.Y1968N uc003pdb.2 P66 FLNC 2318 128257948 Nonsense c.230C>A p.Y7* uc003vnz.2 P66 FTH1 2495 61489465 Missense c.448G>A p.M71 l uc001 nsu.1 P66 GFI1 B 8328 134853570 Missense c.555T>C p.V135A uc004ccg.1 P66 GJC2 57165 226413328 Missense c.1421 G>A p.G416R uc001 hsk.1 P66 KLF9 687 72218065 Missense c.1329C>G p.A12G uc004aht.1 P66 MAEL 84944 165225305 Missense c.163G>C p.R31 P uc001 gdy.1 P66 MANBA 4126 10381 1592 Missense c.1224T>C p.L375P uc003hwg.1 P66 MYD88 4615 38157645 Missense c.794T>C p.L265P NM_002468 P66 PHLDB1 23187 1 18020040 Missense c.3412G>T p.R1020L uc001 ptr.1 P66 PLEKHH1 57475 671 18588 Missense c.3476C>G p.L1 1 12V uc001 xjl.1 P66 PLEKHN1 84069 898186 ln_frame_Del c.1276 1278delGC p.414 415RT>P uc001 ace.1 P66 SCN8A 6334 50401812 Nonsense c.2029C>A p.Y617* uc001 ryw.1 P66 SF3A2 8175 2199165 In frame Del c.1 137 1 157delCC p.PAPGVHP360del uc002lvg.1 P66 Gene Name Gene ID Start_position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID SIRPA 140885 1851282 Missense c.1087A>C p.T360P uc002wft.1 P66 SMC3 9126 1 12351888 Missense c.3193C>T p.L1023F uc001 kze.1 P66 SMYD1 150572 88168501 Missense c.322C>G p.A107G uc002ssr.1 P66 TNRC6A 27327 24649089 Missense c.134A>G p.K7R uc002dmm.1 P66 UPK1 A 1 1045 40856258 Missense c.439A>C p.T147P uc010eeh.1 P66 ZNF71 1 7552 84409954 Splice_Site_SNP c.e8 splice site uc004eeq.1 P66 AATK 9625 76708382 Frame_Shift_lns c.391 1_3912insC p.P1277fs uc010dia.1 P67 ACTL8 81569 18022392 Missense c.482C>T p.T101 M uc001 bat.1 P67 AHDC1 27245 27746594 Missense c.5589C>G p.C1540W uc009vsy.1 P67 CD22 933 40518809 Missense c.520C>T p.P148L uc010edt.1 P67 CDH15 1013 87786248 Missense c.1827A>C p.K584Q uc002fmt.1 P67 CDH9 1007 26926414 Missense c.1439C>T p.H424Y uc003jgs.1 P67 CNBD1 168975 88318317 Missense c.680C>A p.T21 1 K uc003ydy.2 P67 CREBBP 1387 3718097 Missense c.7156C>G p.Q2318E uc002cw.1 P67 CSMD3 1 14788 1 13416867 Missense c.7191 C>A p.D2344E uc003ynu.1 P67 DUSP2 1844 96173628 Missense c.808G>A p.G241 D uc002svk.2 P67 ERAL1 26284 24206186 Missense c.18C>G p.A3G uc002hcy.1 P67 JAG2 3714 104685720 Missense c.2526A>C p.T708P uc001 yqg.1 P67 MUT 4594 49516005 Missense c.2084G>A p.R610H uc003ozg.2 P67 MYBL2 4605 41743895 Missense c.387G>C p.A58P uc002xlb.1 P67 MYD88 4615 38157263 Missense c.695T>C p.M232T NM_002468 P67 NBEA 26960 34415190 Missense c.439T>C P.I78T uc001 uvb.1 P67 PBX2 5089 32265621 Frame_Shift_Del c.321_321 delG p.G17fs uc003oav.1 P67 PVRL2 5819 50073438 ln_frame_Del c.1551 1553delGA p.R391 del uc002ozv.1 P67 SI 6476 166265856 Missense c.756C>T p.R232C uc003fei.1 P67 SLC44A3 126969 95129325 Missense c.1641 A>G p.K512E uc001 dqv.2 P67 SMCHD1 23347 2695692 Missense c.2032G>A p.V615l uc002klm.2 P67 SYT7 9066 6104791 1 Missense c.1 102C>T p.R366W uc009ynr.1 P67 TRIM1 1 81559 226649486 Missense c.1205C>G p.A317G uc001 hss.1 P67 ZNF697 90874 1 19966957 Missense c.1646A>C p.H51 1 P uc001 ehy.1 P67 ABI3BP 25890 101954474 Missense c.2901 G>A p.D946N uc003dun.1 P68 C1 1 orf41 25758 33587964 Missense c.4406G>A p.A1428T uc001 mup.2 P68 CLASP1 23332 121861233 Missense c.3699C>A p.H1 103Q uc002tnc.1 P68 CTTNBP2NL 55917 1 12800515 Missense c.1046C>T p.P293L uc001 ebx.1 P68 DMXL1 1657 1 18512389 Missense c.3149A>G p.T990A uc01 Ojcl.1 P68 D0CK8 81704 410429 Missense c.3981 C>T p.A1290V uc003zgf.1 P68 G0LGA3 2802 131900009 Missense c.1035A>G p.E159G uc001 ukz.1 P68 KRT83 3889 51001206 Missense c.244G>A p.A61 T uc001 saf.2 P68 LRRC4C 57689 40093863 Missense c.2520T>C p.S186P uc001 mxa.1 P68 MUC2 4583 1083430 Missense c.12362C>A p.T41 12N uc001 lsx.1 P68 OR13C8 138802 106371360 Missense c.91 A>G p.131 V uc004bcc.1 P68 RIMS4 140730 42818349 Missense c.653G>C p.R218P uc010ggu.1 P68 RPUSD2 27079 38651347 Missense c.859G>A p.A287T uc001 zmd.1 P68 RXFP1 59350 159774068 Missense c.1043C>A p.L321 M uc003ipz.1 P68 SDC1 6382 20267419 Missense c.562C>A p.A88D uc002rdo.1 P68 SKA3 221 150 20633928 Splice_Site_SNP c.e5 splice site uc001 unt.1 P68 TAS2R41 259287 142885224 Missense c.137T>C p.M46T uc003wdc.1 P68 TERF2IP 54386 74239345 Missense c.161 G>T p.V22L uc002fet.1 P68 TRYX3 136541 141601831 Splice_Site_SNP c.e2_splice_site uc003vxb.1 P68 ALS2CR8 79800 203527027 Missense c.762C>A p.T161 N uc002uzo.2 P69 ARRDC1 92714 139628914 Missense c.952C>T p.P293L uc004cnp.1 P69 CALHM1 255022 105208073 Missense c.563C>G p.S142R uc001 kxe.1 P69 CCNB3 85417 50107426 Missense c.4170A>C p.Q1291 P uc004dox.2 P69 CPXM1 56265 2726933 Missense c.519G>A p.G152D uc002wgu.1 P69 DICER1 23405 94630229 Missense c.5295G>A p.E1705K uc001 ydw.2 P69 DLGAP5 9787 54695137 Missense c.1946G>C p.A577P uc001 xbs.1 P69 D0CK7 85440 62892051 Missense c.356G>A p.E108K uc001 daq.1 P69 FAM135B 51059 139224514 Missense c.3732T>A p.F1 187L uc003yuy.1 P69 GRB14 2888 1651 12505 Missense c.933G>C p.R131 P uc002ucl.1 P69 ITGA9 3680 37801572 Missense c.2941 C>T p.T963M uc003chd.1 P69 MED1 5469 34817880 Missense c.4332T>C p.S1374P uc002hrv.2 P69 MIIP 60672 1201 1694 Missense c.745T>C p.S189P uc001 ato.1 P69 NHEDC1 150159 104047234 Missense c.1225T>G P.I368S uc003hww.1 P69 PAK7 57144 9572897 Missense c.625C>T p.P27L uc002wnl.2 P69 PXN 5829 1 19138181 Missense c.940G>A p.E20K uc001txu.2 P69 ABCC3 8714 46088335 Nonsense c.259C>A p.Y63* uc002isl.1 P70 ACLY 47 37297388 Missense c.2032G>C p.G676A uc002hyi.1 P70 AGTR1 185 149942251 Missense c.1 185C>A p.L247l uc003ewg.1 P70 ALMS1 7840 73532015 Missense c.4967G>T p.S1619l uc002sje.1 P70 APOB 338 21083778 Frame_Shift_lns c.9594_9595insA p.T3156fs uc002red.1 P70 ATP2B2 491 10362785 Missense c.2760T>G p.V814G uc003bvt.1 P70 CACNA1 G 8913 46031978 Missense c.3821 G>A p.R1 150Q uc002irk.1 P70 CERCAM 51 148 130236577 Missense c.1797G>A p.V467M uc004buz.2 P70 DOK3 79930 176862778 In frame Del c.1026 1028delCT p.L289del uc003mhi.2 P70 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID FBXL21 26223 135304105 Missense c.539T>C p.V173A uc010jec.1 P70 HIST1 H4F 8361 26348931 Missense c.299G>A P.G100D uc003nhe.1 P70 KIAA1244 57221 138697762 Missense c.6086A>G p.Y2029C uc003qhu.2 P70 KIF26A 26153 103688444 Missense c.628G>A p.A210T uc001 os.2 P70 KIF26B 55083 243916439 Missense c.3971 G>C p.Q1 177H uc001 ibf.1 P70 NR2F2 7026 94678458 Missense c.1 173A>G p.S198G uc002btq.1 P70 RAG2 5897 36572292 Missense c.191 G>A p.M1 l uc001 mwv.2 P70 RIF1 55183 151981368 Missense c.458A>G p.N1 10D uc002txm.1 P70 ROB02 6092 77696868 Missense c.2399C>T p.R586W uc003dpy.2 P70 SELO 83642 48991 188 Missense c.1 130T>G p.Y358D uc003bjx.1 P70 TAF4B 6875 22149232 Missense c.2378T>G p.V630G uc002kvt.2 P70 TAF7L 54457 100434548 Missense c.154G>A p.D48N uc004ehb.1 P70 TMEM79 84283 154528792 Splice_Site_Del c.e4_splice_site uc001foe.1 P70 ZBTB10 65986 81562423 Missense c.1421 T>G p.C275G uc003ybx.2 P70 ABI3BP 25890 102066342 Frame_Shift_Del c.1 174_1 174delT p.F363fs uc003dup.2 P71 FASN 2194 77639393 Nonsense c.2790C>A p.Y891 * uc002kdu.1 P71 FOXJ3 22887 42549329 Missense c.335G>T p.C8F uc001 che.1 P71 SUSD3 203328 94877910 Missense c.148C>A p.P38T uc004atb.1 P71 BPIL3 128859 31093481 Missense c.1 187A>G p.N396S uc002wyk.1 P72 C12orf5 57103 4331955 Missense c.729T>C p.L217S uc001 qmp.1 P72 CELSR1 9620 45308699 Missense c.3033C>G p.N101 1 K uc003bhw.1 P72 CFC1 B 653275 131072730 Missense c.593T>G p.W68G uc002tro.1 P72 CSMD1 64478 2953627 Missense c.7052C>A p.T2221 K uc010lrh.1 P72 DTNA 1837 3071 1720 Missense c.1863C>G p.A621 G uc010dmn.1 P72 DYNC1 LI2 1783 65319629 Missense c.1 150A>C p.Q373H uc002eqb.1 P72 DYRK1 B 9149 45008557 Missense c.1808T>C p.S510P uc002omj.1 P72 ELF1 1997 40416032 Missense c.787T>C p.S187P uc001 uxr.1 P72 FAM179A 165186 29103252 Missense c.2234C>T p.A628V uc010ezl.1 P72 FOXJ2 55810 8091870 Missense c.2028T>C p.S315P uc001 qtu.1 P72 GFM1 85476 159866794 Missense c.1633A>G p.E509G uc003fce.1 P72 IFT122 55764 130715978 Missense c.3403C>G p.A1066G uc003eml.1 P72 IGFN1 91 156 199452330 Missense c.1673C>T p.R301 W uc001 gwc.1 P72 KCNS2 3788 99510478 Missense c.1445G>C p.W365C uc003yin.1 P72 LYPD5 284348 48994512 Missense c.533C>G p.S151 C uc002oxm.2 P72 MAGEA8 4107 148774495 Missense c.1006C>T p.A264V uc004fdw.1 P72 MESP2 145873 88121 151 ln_frame_Del c.559_570delGGG p.GQGQ199del uc002bon.1 P72 METTL13 51603 170019650 Missense c.648T>G p.L101 V uc001 ghz.1 P72 PLCD3 1 13026 40550913 Nonsense c.1348C>T p.Q412* uc002iib.1 P72 PRKCI 5584 171463881 Missense c.572C>T p.R1 12C uc003fgs.2 P72 PTTG1 9232 159781905 Missense c.53C>A p.T3N uc003lyj.1 P72 RAB21 2301 1 70450651 Missense c.484C>G p.Q78E uc001 swt.1 P72 RPS15 6209 1391458 Missense c.576G>C p.K152N uc002lsq.1 P72 TBC1 D25 4943 48304293 Missense c.2164A>C p.T685P uc004dka.1 P72 TNK2 10188 197079875 Missense c.2025C>G p.A627G uc003fvt.1 P72 TOPBP1 1 1073 134821752 Missense c.3393C>T p.S1016F uc003eps.1 P72 TP53 7157 7519095 Splice_Site_SNP c.e5_splice_site uc002gim.2 P72 12-Sep 124404 4767885 Missense c.1080G>A p.A331 T uc002cxq.1 P73 ADAMTS7 1 1 173 76838856 Missense c.5234G>T p.A1675S uc002bej.2 P73 ASB12 142689 63361600 Missense c.690G>C p.R219P uc004dvq.1 P73 ATM 472 107707431 Missense c.7951 A>T p.Q2522H uc001 pkb.1 P73 ATM 472 107721712 Nonsense c.8836T>G p.Y2817* uc001 pkb.1 P73 ATP1 A1 476 1 16742907 Missense c.2564G>A p.A756T uc001 ege.1 P73 ATP8B3 148229 1747166 Missense c.2086G>C p.V618L uc002ltw.1 P73 BRD8 10902 137504292 Splice_Site_SNP c.e26 splice site uc003lcf.1 P73 C14orf43 91748 73263933 Missense c.2926A>T p.T715S uc001 xot.1 P73 CHD5 26038 6129398 Missense c.1604C>T p.P502S uc001 amb.1 P73 CNTN5 53942 99675173 Missense c.2794C>T p.R819C uc001 pga.1 P73 DAPK1 1612 89501868 Missense c.2678A>T p.E847V uc004apc.1 P73 DOK6 220164 65659552 Missense c.1 139C>T p.R317W uc002lkl.1 P73 ERBB2IP 55914 65385399 Missense c.2542C>T p.P829S uc010iwx.1 P73 ESPL1 9700 5194981 1 Missense c.909G>A p.S273N uc001 sck.2 P73 FAM92A1 137392 94809636 Missense c.908C>G p.Q269E uc010maq.1 P73 FAT4 79633 126462093 Missense c.5077G>A p.A1693T uc003ifj.2 P73 FCER1 A 2205 157542410 Missense c.439C>G p.L1 14V uc001ftq.1 P73 GABRA5 2558 247651 19 Missense c.961 G>A p.G208S uc001 zbd.1 P73 GJC3 349149 99364644 Missense c.536C>T p.T179l uc003usg.1 P73 IGSF1 1 152404 120127650 Missense c.815A>G p.T190A uc003ebw.1 P73 ITK 3702 156570945 Missense c.395G>T p.A105S uc003lwo.1 P73 KCNK18 338567 1 189591 15 Missense c.470C>T p.T157l uc001 ldc.1 P73 LMLN 89782 199171558 Missense c.91 C>T p.P12S uc003fyt.1 P73 LRIT2 340745 85975249 Missense c.16C>T p.S3L uc001 kcy.1 P73 NVL 4931 222554957 Missense c.1035C>G p.A331 G uc001 hok.1 P73 OBSCN 84033 226573385 Missense c.14353G>C p.R4770P uc009xez.1 P73 PHF3 23469 64471502 Frame Shift Del c.3375 3381 del AA p.N1 1 17fs uc003pep.1 P73 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID RHBDD3 25807 27991524 Missense c.464T>G p.V31 G uc003aeq.1 P73 RSAD2 91543 6944657 Missense c.785G>A p.A217T uc002qyp.1 P73 SLC4A1 1 83959 3157652 Missense c.2120T>G p.V691 G uc002wig.1 P73 TNFAIP2 7127 102662697 ln_frame_Del .281 283delGAA p.K54del uc001 ymm.1 P73 TSHZ2 128553 51303553 Missense c.1 105C>T p.T50M uc002xwo.2 P73 TSPAN33 340348 128588805 Missense c.381 A>T p.K51 M uc003vop.1 P73 UGT1 A4 54657 234293054 Missense c.878C>G p.N283K uc002vux.1 P73 USH2A 7399 214078036 Missense c.9678A>T p.K3097N uc001 hku.1 P73 USP19 10869 49124422 Nonsense c.2990C>A p.Y943* uc003cvz.2 P73 A2M 2 9145502 Nonsense c.1415C>A p.Y434* uc001 qvk.1 P74 ABCC6 368 16167016 Missense c.3308A>C P.I1091 L uc002den.2 P74 ADAM 15 8751 153297363 Missense c.1840A>C p.Q580P uc001fgr.1 P74 C11 orf88 399949 1 10892001 Missense c.295C>A p.L99l uc009yyd.1 P74 C15orf2 23742 22472528 Missense c.895A>C P.I141 L uc001 ywo.1 P74 COL1 1 A2 1302 33261505 Missense c.1055A>T p.E276V uc003ocx.1 P74 CYP27C1 339761 127669546 Missense c.685C>A p.T185K uc002tod.2 P74 DERL2 51009 5330180 Missense c.42A>G p.E9G uc002gcc.1 P74 FAM103A1 83640 81449669 Missense c.388A>G p.D68G uc002bjl.1 P74 FAM151 B 167555 79873378 Missense c.945C>A p.Q268K uc003kgv.1 P74 FUT7 2529 139045459 Missense c.1402C>G p.L185V uc004ckq.2 P74 HECTD1 25831 30683882 Missense c.3002G>C p.R838P uc001wrc.1 P74 KLHL31 401265 53624918 Missense c.1483C>G p.P448A uc003pcb.2 P74 MLL3 58508 151495360 Missense c.9773A>C p.Q3185P uc003wla.1 P74 OLFML3 56944 1 14325104 Nonsense c.520C>A p.Y137* uc001 eer.1 P74 PTCH1 5727 97260245 Nonsense c.3227C>A p.Y1013* uc004avk.2 P74 RBKS 64080 27919537 Missense c.426G>C p.A139P uc002rlo.1 P74 RELT 84957 72783932 Missense c.1364G>A p.G400E uc001 otv.1 P74 RNF10 9921 1 19457061 Missense c.547A>C p.N22H uc001typ.2 P74 SEMA3A 10371 83448699 Missense c.1841 T>G p.V509G uc003uhz.1 P74 SLC25A33 84275 9562832 Missense c.939C>G p.A239G uc001 apw.1 P74 TP53 7157 7520080 Missense c.526T>G p.L1 1 1 R uc002gim.2 P74 CA10 56934 47065998 Missense c.1556C>T p.R274C uc002itv.2 P75 CRAMP1 L 57585 1643068 Missense c.687G>C p.R1 12P uc002cme.1 P75 DUS3L 56931 5740592 Missense c.574A>C p.T176P uc002mdc.1 P75 DYNC2H1 79659 102844538 Missense c.12825G>T p.L4227F uc001 phn.1 P75 ELN 2006 73104225 Missense c.1016G>C p.A309P uc003tzw.1 P75 EPM2A 7957 145990417 Missense c.1 181 C>T p.A275V uc003qkw.1 P75 GAP43 2596 1 16878018 Missense c.980C>A p.Q203K uc003ebr.1 P75 ITPKB 3707 224990032 Frame_Shift_lns c.1786_1787insG p.E584fs uc001 hqg.1 P75 KIAA0182 23199 84248567 Missense c.1570C>G p.A499G uc002fix.1 P75 NFASC 231 14 203214793 Frame_Shift_Del c.2150_2150delG p.G651fs uc001 hbj.1 P75 PRR21 643905 240630159 Frame_Shift_Del .901 914delGCC p.A301fs uc002vys.1 P75 SLAMF1 6504 158873631 Missense c.735G>A p.R130H uc001fwl.2 P75 TFEB 7942 41761846 Missense c.1047G>A p.R318H uc003oqu.1 P75 ADAMTS19 171019 129047739 Missense c.2674G>A p.G892S uc003kvb.1 P76 BID 637 16602132 Missense c.808A>C p.T162P uc002znc.1 P76 C17orf71 55181 54642204 Missense c.52C>G p.P4A uc002ixi.1 P76 CASKIN1 57524 2170623 Missense c.2779G>C p.R916P uc010bsg.1 P76 CHMP7 91782 23169973 Missense c.1361 A>G p.D238G uc003xdc.2 P76 COPG 22820 130478921 Missense c.2689G>C p.E863D uc003els.1 P76 DLG5 9231 79265503 Missense c.1691 C>T p.R541 W uc001jzk.1 P76 GALNT3 2591 166319480 Missense c.1916A>G p.K510R uc010fph.1 P76 KLHL1 1 55175 37274800 Missense c.356C>G p.A1 17G uc002hyf.1 P76 LRRIQ1 84125 84024438 Missense c.3402A>T p.K1097N uc001tac.1 P76 MRC2 9902 58097890 Missense c.1302G>T p.L300F uc002jad.1 P76 NEU4 129807 242406849 Nonsense c.1744C>A p.Y431 * uc002wcn.1 P76 NINJ2 4815 544793 Nonsense c.527C>T p.R146* ucOOI qil.1 P76 PCDHA8 56140 140202654 Missense c.1564C>T p.P522S uc003lhs.1 P76 RGS9 8787 60594848 Missense c.679T>G p.V190G uc002jfe.1 P76 SSPO 23145 149124440 Missense c.6583G>A p.G2195S uc010lpk.1 P76 STAB1 23166 52529348 Splice_Site_SNP c.e52 splice site uc003dej.1 P76 STOX1 219736 70314588 Missense c.1030G>A p.V344l uc001joq.1 P76 TAOK1 57551 24849472 Missense c.1204A>G p.H337R uc002hdz.1 P76 TBC1 D23 55773 101517661 Missense c.1634A>G p.K543E uc003dtt.1 P76 TBC1 D28 254272 18483233 Missense c.590G>A p.V60l uc002gud.2 P76 TP53 7157 7518996 Missense c.772A>T p.H193L uc002gim.2 P76 TP53AIP1 63970 128312725 Missense c.409C>T p.L67F uc001 qex.1 P76 VPS41 27072 38764580 Missense c.1475G>T p.W483C uc003tgy.1 P76 BMPER 168667 33943462 Missense c.629G>T p.V86L uc003tdw.1 P77 CSMD1 64478 3876895 Missense c.940A>G p.T184A uc010lrh.1 P77 DENND1 A 57706 125184134 Missense c.2661 C>T p.P810S uc004bnz.1 P77 DHX37 57647 124031223 ln_frame_Del c.601_603delGAG p.E168del uc001 ugy.1 P77 DOCK6 57572 1 1222606 Missense c.705C>G p.L222V uc002mqs.2 P77 DSP 1832 7500957 Missense c.457G>A P.G60S uc003mxp.1 P77 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID FAT1 2195 187865514 Missense c.2650A>T p.E821 V uc003izf.1 P77 IL12RB2 3595 67589273 Missense .181 1 G>A p.G391 R uc001 ddu.1 P77 IRAK4 51 135 42466478 Missense c.1322A>G p.K400E uc001 rnu.2 P77 MAN1 C1 57134 25952568 Nonsense c.1 171 C>T p.R281 * uc001 bkm.2 P77 NBPF1 55672 16781708 Frame_Shift_Del c.21 12_21 12delC p.D408fs uc009vos.1 P77 NPL 80896 181030157 Missense c.168G>A p.GI OS uc009wyb.1 P77 PRKAR1 B 5575 717535 Missense c.240G>A p.R45H uc003siu.1 P77 PRR21 643905 240630790 Frame_Shift_Del c.256 283delAGT p.S86fs uc002vys.1 P77 PSD3 23362 18774161 Missense c.596T>C p.S165P uc003wza.1 P77 PTK2B 2185 27352517 Missense c.2504G>A p.G566R uc003xfn.1 P77 RAMP3 10268 45164003 Frame_Shift_Del c.1 12_1 12delG p.L17fs uc003tnb.1 P77 SCN7A 6332 167037099 Nonsense c.673G>A p.W182* uc002udu.1 P77 TAF6 6878 99543163 Missense c.1984C>T p.S616L uc003uth.1 P77 UCK2 7371 164141791 Missense c.788T>A p.Y203N uc001 gdp.1 P77 WARS 7453 99889892 Missense c.694A>C p.K204Q uc001 hf.1 P77 C6orf1 221491 34322597 Missense c.744C>A p.T51 N uc003ojf.1 P78 CPNE7 27132 88189378 Missense c.1760A>G p.1544V uc002fnp.1 P78 DAPK1 1612 8951 1703 Missense c.4035C>A p.D1299E uc004apc.1 P78 DLG5 9231 79271650 Missense c.1502C>T p.R478W uc001jzk.1 P78 FAT3 1201 14 92173109 Missense c.7299C>T p.R2428W uc001 pdj.2 P78 GABRA2 2555 46007001 Missense c.1 178C>T p.H169Y uc003gxc.2 P78 GRIK4 2900 120338435 Missense c.2388G>A p.V701 M uc001 pxn.2 P78 HDGFRP2 84717 4448957 Missense c.1424C>T p.P444L uc002mao.1 P78 IL28B 282617 44426941 Missense c.218C>T p.R72C uc002oks.1 P78 MAOB 4129 43587945 Missense c.232C>G p.A19G uc004dfz.2 P78 MED12 9968 70255978 Missense c.329G>A p.G44S uc004dyy.1 P78 SYTL2 54843 850961 19 Splice_Site_SNP c.e8 splice site uc001 pbb.1 P78 WDR7 23335 52597686 Missense c.3185T>C p.C992R uc002lgk.1 P78 WDR72 256764 51812596 Frame_Shift_Del c.85 85delG p.A15fs uc002acj.2 P78 AKAP8L 26993 15390730 Missense c.104G>A p.S2N uc002naw.1 P79 ALDH5A1 7915 24623476 Missense c.896G>A p.V290M uc003nef.1 P79 C1 QL1 10882 40400864 Missense c.307A>C p.T27P uc002ihv.1 P79 DOCK5 80005 25205517 Frame_Shift_lns .519 520insGG p.R128fs uc003xeg.1 P79 EPPK1 83481 145015572 Missense c.3851 C>G p.L1255V uc003zaa.1 P79 FAM120A 23196 95254365 Missense c.372G>C p.R1 16P uc004atw.1 P79 KCNU1 157855 36761243 Frame_Shift_Del c.244_244delA p.K53fs uc010lvw.1 P79 KIAA1524 57650 109784542 Missense c.598G>C p.SH OT uc003dxb.2 P79 MED12L 1 16931 152391387 Missense c.1985G>T p.K649N uc003eyp.1 P79 PFN1 5216 4790826 Missense c.303G>A p.R56Q uc002gaa.1 P79 PLXNA1 5361 128219828 Missense c.3597T>G p.V1 198G uc003ejg.1 P79 PODXL 5420 130891570 ln_frame_Del c.342_347delGTC p.28 30PSP>P uc003vqw.2 P79 PPFIA2 8499 80179892 Read-through c.3935A>C p.*1258C uc001 szo.1 P79 RFTN2 130132 198206795 Missense c.1012G>A p.G204R uc002uuo.2 P79 SPG20 231 1 1 35807294 Missense c.768C>A p.P225Q uc001 uvm.1 P79 STAB2 55576 102624878 Missense c.4361 G>C p.G1392A uc001tjw.1 P79 TNS3 64759 47375185 Missense c.1950A>G p.N528S uc003tnv.1 P79 ZMAT5 55954 28464404 Missense c.549C>A P.L100I uc003agm.1 P79 BAI3 577 69405721 Missense c.881 G>A p.G145R uc003pev.2 P80 CCDC62 84660 121852039 Missense c.1538A>T p.S465C uc001 udc.1 P80 COL5A2 1290 189607103 Missense c.4713G>A p.V1480M uc002uqk.1 P80 DPP9 91039 4653620 Missense c.1 156G>T p.W293L uc002mba.1 P80 KAL1 3730 8461076 Missense c.2153G>A p.R668H uc004csf.1 P80 KNTC1 9735 121639218 Frame_Shift_Del c.4064_4064delG p.G1301fs uc001 ucv.1 P80 LAD1 3898 199622274 Missense c.1073G>A p.A280T uc001 gwm.1 P80 LRRK1 79705 99410672 Missense c.4031 C>G p.L1238V uc002bwr.1 P80 LRRN4CL 221091 62212012 Missense c.852C>G p.P182R uc001 nun.1 P80 MYH6 4624 22935397 Missense c.2432C>T p.R789C uc001wjv.2 P80 NINJ1 4814 94936257 Missense c.135C>A p.P22T uc004atg.2 P80 NPR3 4883 32748081 Missense c.660T>C p.S148P uc003jhv.1 P80 PLB1 151056 28705507 Missense c.3769G>T p.A1257S uc002rmb.1 P80 PTPRZ1 5803 121403502 Missense c.891 T>A p.F166l uc003vjy.1 P80 RAPGEF5 9771 22297387 Splice_Site_lns c.e6 splice site uc003svg.1 P80 SENP6 26054 76463931 Missense c.2885A>G p.1756V uc003pid.2 P80 SHANK1 50944 55867161 Missense c.2619G>A p.R867H uc002psx.1 P80 SIM2 6493 37035984 Missense c.1003A>C p.N316T uc002yvr.1 P80 SLC22A17 51310 22887326 Missense c.778G>A p.R241 Q uc001wjl.1 P80 TLE2 7089 2964816 Missense c.847G>A p.D243N uc010dth.1 P80 TNP02 30000 12678017 Missense c.2399A>C p.N646T uc002mup.1 P80 UCK1 83549 133394153 Missense c.696C>T p.P201 L uc004cay.1 P80 ZMYND15 84225 4593457 Missense c.1285C>A p.H419N uc002fyu.1 P80 ADCY1 107 45628857 Missense c.1028A>G p.E337G uc003tne.2 P81 APOC2 344 50144278 Missense c.341 G>C p.A80P uc002pah.1 P81 ARID4B 51742 23341 1660 Missense c.3695A>G p.D1066G uc001 hwq.1 P81 ATP2B3 492 152483672 Missense c.3385G>A P.E1087K uc004fht.1 P81 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID C14orf183 196913 49620246 Missense c.848T>C p.L283S uc001wxm.1 P81 C17orf82 388407 56844386 Missense c.493G>T p.G90W uc002izh.1 P81 C22orf42 150297 30877000 Missense c.513T>C p.S158P uc003amd.1 P81 CAMKK2 10645 120182506 Missense c.919G>T p.M265l uc001tzu.1 P81 CD74 972 149772471 Missense c.55A>G p.D12G uc003lsf.1 P81 CLDN1 9076 191513372 Missense c.591 C>T p.A124V uc003fsh.1 P81 EXOC3L 283849 65776586 Missense c.1944G>T p.G568V uc002erx.1 P81 FAM1 16B 414918 49097454 Frame_Shift_Del c.548_548delT p.L102fs uc003bkx.1 P81 HSD17B6 8630 55462229 Missense c.628T>C p.V173A uc001 smg.1 P81 IDH1 3417 208812085 Missense c.1355G>A p.G370D uc002vcs.1 P81 KNDC1 85442 134877599 Missense c.4661 A>C p.T1554P uc001 llz.1 P81 MCM6 4175 136325461 Missense c.1974G>C p.R633P uc002tuw.1 P81 NALCN 259232 100827062 Missense c.823A>G p.T212A uc001vox.1 P81 PLA2G4A 5321 185129859 Missense c.476T>A p.L91 l uc001 gsc.1 P81 PLA2G4A 5321 185182666 Missense c.1419T>G p.L405W uc001 gsc.1 P81 RYR2 6262 236038954 Missense c.14549T>C p.L4810P uc001 hyl.1 P81 SCN7A 6332 167030735 Missense c.800T>A p.S225T uc002udu.1 P81 SIRPA 140885 1843955 Missense c.299C>A p.T97K uc002wft.1 P81 SLC22A7 10864 43374283 Missense c.308C>T p.P70L uc003out.1 P81 SLIT2 9353 20139695 Missense c.1692A>C p.L496F uc003gpr.1 P81 SULT1 A2 6799 28514733 Missense c.371 T>C p.l7T uc002dqg.1 P81 TECTA 7007 120528887 Missense c.4193G>C p.C1398S uc001 pxr.1 P81 TEX15 56154 30823876 Missense c.2200G>A p.E734K uc003xil.1 P81 TPRX1 284355 52997355 ln_frame_Del c.773 796delGAA p.234 242PNPGPIP uc002php.1 P81 ALKBH1 8846 77244084 Missense c.26C>G p.A6G uc001 xuc.1 P82 ATP1 A4 480 158395908 Missense c.1225A>C p.N249T uc001fve.2 P82 BCOR 54880 39818154 Frame_Shift_Del c.1680_1681 delCC p.P463fs uc004den.2 P82 BRSK2 9024 1389377 Missense c.420T>C p.L56P uc001 ltm.2 P82 CAND1 55832 65961968 Missense c.517C>A p.T27K uc001 stn.2 P82 DNAH10 196385 122965416 Missense c.10310G>C p.A3429P uc001 uft.2 P82 DNAH9 1770 1 1588941 Missense c.6282C>T p.R2072C uc002gne.1 P82 ENPEP 2028 1 1 1688855 Frame_Shift_Del c.2417 2417delG p.W692fs uc003iab.2 P82 GRM5 2915 87940496 Missense c.2203G>A p.R668H uc001 pcq.1 P82 KIAA0430 9665 15610904 Missense c.4124G>A p.E131 1 K uc002ddr.1 P82 KIAA0802 23255 8708540 Missense c.234G>A p.R31 Q uc002knr.2 P82 KIRREL3 84623 1258001 1 1 Nonsense c.1997C>A p.Y637* uc001 qea.1 P82 MAPI B 4131 71526245 Missense c.1548A>G p.Y436C uc003kbw.2 P82 MEM01 51072 31948527 Splice_Site_SNP c.e8_splice_site uc002rnx.1 P82 MMP12 4321 102244005 Frame_Shift_lns c.674 675insA p.T210fs uc001 phk.1 P82 NOTCH 1 4851 138510470 Frame_Shift_Del c.7541_7542delCT p.P2514fs uc004chz.1 P82 PPM1 F 9647 20615657 Missense c.868C>G p.Q252E uc002zvp.1 P82 PTH2 1 13091 54618366 Missense c.145C>G p.L15V uc002pnn.1 P82 SCAPER 49855 74808099 Missense c.2091 C>G p.A685G uc002bby.1 P82 SEC16B 89866 176196666 Missense c.1688G>A p.M274l uc001 glj.1 P82 SETBP1 26040 40785584 Missense c.2577G>A p.V707M uc010dni.1 P82 SMCR7 125170 18108688 Missense c.1440T>C p.L417P uc002gst.1 P82 TSNAXIP1 55815 66412286 Missense c.423C>A p.TI OK uc002euj.1 P82 TTC7A 57217 47132436 Missense c.2505A>G p.M713V uc010fbb.1 P82 VARS 7407 31854805 Missense c.4067C>G p.A1215G uc003nxe.1 P82 WWC1 23286 167804132 Missense c.2555A>G p.E830G uc003lzu.1 P82 ZP4 57829 2361 15706 Missense c.943C>T p.L315F uc001 hym.1 P82 ATG9B 285973 150352416 Frame_Shift_lns c.103_104insG p.G9fs uc010lpv.1 P83 C1 1 orf35 256329 545379 Missense c.1762A>C p.T567P uc001 lpx.1 P83 CNTROB 1 16840 7780825 Nonsense c.1712C>T p.Q265* uc002gjp.1 P83 EVC 2121 5784069 Missense c.585C>T p.S134F uc003gil.1 P83 FLNB 2317 58063032 Missense c.1573C>T p.R470W uc010hne.1 P83 HYDIN 54768 69499816 Missense c.8361 G>T p.V2745L uc002ezr.1 P83 IFLTD1 160492 25564170 Missense c.992G>A p.R281 H uc001 rgs.1 P83 IRF2 3660 185548886 Frame_Shift_Del c.902_906delAAC p.E234fs uc003iwf.2 P83 MADCAM1 8174 452762 Missense c.771 A>C p.Q254P uc002los.1 P83 PANK4 55229 2436988 Missense c.1256A>G p.E416G uc001 ajm.1 P83 PDE2A 5138 71970570 Missense c.2082C>T p.R641 W uc001 osm.1 P83 PRKG1 5592 5371 1936 Frame_Shift_Del c.1680_1680delA p.A521fs uc001jjo.2 P83 PXDNL 137902 52547417 Missense c.796A>G p.Q232R uc003xqu.2 P83 SAMD5 389432 147871912 Missense c.157G>C p.R52P uc003qmc.1 P83 TMEM59 9528 54270424 Missense c.1212A>G p.H321 R uc001 cwq.1 P83 TRPV4 59341 108705926 Missense c.2594C>A p.N833K uc001tpj.1 P83 TTN 7273 179171917 Missense c.49285A>G p.E16354G uc002umr.1 P83 TXLNB 167838 139633330 Nonsense c.756G>T p.E215* uc010kha.1 P83 ANGPT2 285 6353944 Missense c.1576T>C P.I416T uc003wqj.2 P84 EVC2 132884 567541 1 Missense c.2309G>A p.R752Q uc003gij.1 P84 MICALCL 84953 12272963 ln_frame_Del c.1700_1702delCT p.T471 del uc001 mkg.1 P84 OR5AS1 219447 55555423 Missense c.953G>A p.R318H uc001 nif.1 P84 OR8J3 81 168 55661275 Missense c.496G>A P.V166M uc001 nij.1 P84 Gene Name Gene ID Start position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID PGM5 5239 70189275 Missense c.795T>A p.F189Y uc004agr.1 P84 PHLPP1 23239 58648424 Missense c.395C>A p.L73M uc002lis.1 P84 PIWIL4 143689 93940400 Missense c.219G>C p.R23P uc001 pfa.1 P84 RECQL5 9400 71 138513 Splice_Site_lns c.e12 splice site uc010dgl.1 P84 SF3B1 23451 197974954 Missense c.2271 G>T p.K741 N uc002uue.1 P84 SLC22A13 9390 38292790 Missense c.1295G>A p.V416M uc003chz.2 P84 XP01 7514 61572976 Missense c.1840G>A p.E571 K uc002sbi.1 P84 AGPAT9 84803 84744924 Missense c.1503G>A p.G429S uc003how.1 P85 ATM 472 107677584 Splice_Site_SNP c.e35_splice_site uc001 pkb.1 P85 CDHR3 222256 105440555 Missense c.1 144G>A p.E356K uc003vdl.2 P85 CHD9 80205 51899194 Missense c.7045C>T p.S2294F uc002ehb.1 P85 CIDEB 27141 23845524 Missense c.356G>C p.E78Q uc001won.1 P85 CXorf26 51260 7531 1728 Missense c.378C>T p.P59S uc004ecl.1 P85 F8 2157 153744594 Missense c.6703C>T p.R2178C uc004fmt.1 P85 MAN1 C1 57134 25816933 Missense c.388C>G p.P20A uc001 bkm.2 P85 MDC1 9656 30781379 Missense c.4000C>G p.T1 187S uc003nrg.2 P85 MNT 4335 2237491 Missense c.1455G>C p.Q401 H uc002fur.1 P85 NEK10 1521 10 27301 134 Missense c.2251 C>A p.N659K uc003cdt.1 P85 NLGN2 57555 7259157 Missense c.1076C>T p.R335W uc002ggt.1 P85 PKHD1 L1 93035 1 10477524 Missense c.1008G>A p.V302l uc003yne.1 P85 SF3B1 23451 197975079 Missense c.2146A>G p.K700E uc002uue.1 P85 SLC25A42 284439 19079734 Missense c.680A>T P.I177F uc002nlf.1 P85 TBC1 D26 353149 15582353 Missense c.564C>T p.A105V uc010cov.1 P85 ZIC2 7546 99432896 Nonsense c.577C>T p.Q193* uc001von.1 P85 ZNF71 1 7552 84412580 Missense c.2400G>A p.S505N uc004eeq.1 P85 ACTRT1 139741 127013502 Missense c.557T>C p.L122P uc004eum.1 P86 ACVR2A 92 148401270 Missense c.1669T>C p.M500T uc002twg.1 P86 C1orf1 13 79729 36558374 Missense c.1052C>T p.S154L uc001 cah.1 P86 C8orf76 84933 124322660 Missense c.139C>G p.C36W uc003yqc.1 P86 CAPN6 827 1 10381 154 Missense c.1078C>G p.Q304E uc004epc.1 P86 DCN 1634 90082554 Nonsense c.377G>T p.E95* uc001tbs.1 P86 DDX1 1 1663 31 133692 Splice_Site_SNP c.e8_splice_site uc001 rjt.1 P86 DLGAP1 9229 3869890 Missense c.246C>T p.P60L uc002kmf.1 P86 ERC2 26059 56158107 Missense c.1499C>A p.R415S uc003dhr.1 P86 FAM132A 388581 1 168345 Missense c.723T>C p.C231 R uc001 adl.1 P86 FAM53B 9679 126301801 Read-through c.1792A>G p.*423W uc001 lhv.1 P86 GUCY1 A2 2977 106393739 Missense c.643G>A p.V85l uc009yxn.1 P86 KIF4A 24137 69489226 Missense c.1610G>A p.E495K uc004dyg.1 P86 LGALS3 3958 54674798 Missense c.452T>C p.Y101 H uc001 br.1 P86 MFSD7 84179 666077 Missense c.1206C>G p.P373R uc003gbb.1 P86 NBEAL2 23218 47015888 Missense c.3802A>G p.Q1208R uc003cqp.2 P86 NOS1 4842 1 16252978 Missense c.965G>C p.V94L uc001twm.1 P86 PRIC285 85441 61663879 Missense c.741 1 G>T p.Q2173H uc002yfm.2 P86 ProSAPiPI 9762 3093302 Missense c.3218A>G p.E607G uc002wia.1 P86 RPS28 6234 8292862 Missense c.144C>G p.T38R uc002mjn.1 P86 SAMHD1 25939 34981271 Missense c.892G>A p.M254l uc002xgh.1 P86 SEMA4C 54910 96890742 Missense c.2240C>G p.A670G uc002sxg.2 P86 SLC02A1 6578 135148892 Missense c.1466 1467CC>T p.P398F uc003eqa.2 P86 USP6NL 9712 1 1545726 Missense c.1301 A>G p.R420G uc001 iks.1 P86 YIPF3 25844 43591402 Missense c.479A>G p.K108E uc010jyr.1 P86 ZMYM3 9203 70377817 Missense c.3992T>C p.F1302S uc004dzh.1 P86 BCOR 54880 39819146 Frame_Shift_Del c.688 689delGG p.V132fs uc004den.2 P87 C11 orf16 56673 8905208 Missense c.538A>T p.L138F uc001 mhb.2 P87 C19orf35 374872 2226747 Missense c.1448T>G p.C452G uc002lvn.1 P87 CEP350 9857 178297999 Missense c.5667G>A p.E1762K uc001 gnt.1 P87 GPR128 84873 101856634 Missense c.1901 G>C p.A549P uc003duc.1 P87 GRIN3A 1 16443 103379932 Missense c.3548A>C P.I983L uc004bbp.1 P87 IGSF10 285313 152647512 Missense c.2947C>T p.P983S uc003ezb.1 P87 INPP5D 3635 233633454 Missense c.175G>A p.G8S uc002vtv.1 P87 KCNC2 3747 73730870 Missense c.1726G>T p.L394F uc001 sxg.1 P87 NCKAP5 344148 133257568 Missense c.3660G>A p.A1096T uc002ttp.1 P87 NOTCH 1 4851 138510470 Frame_Shift_Del c.7541_7542delCT p.P2514fs uc004chz.1 P87 NR4A1 3164 50738769 Missense c.2728T>G p.V578G uc001 rzq.1 P87 OR2G6 39121 1 246752085 Missense c.515G>A p.R172H uc001 ien.1 P87 PBX2 5089 32262573 Missense c.1379T>G p.S370A uc003oav.1 P87 PLEKHA5 54477 19327644 Missense c.1465G>A p.G487R uc001 rea.1 P87 TDRD5 163589 177897973 Missense c.2629G>C p.A812P uc001 gng.1 P87 CAMK4 814 1 10740514 Missense c.461 G>A p.V121 l uc003kpf.1 P88 GPR39 2863 132891393 Missense c.777G>A p.S103N uc002ttl.1 P88 INPP4A 3631 98528924 Missense c.1 1 13A>G p.N337S uc002syy.1 P88 MY015A 51 168 17993350 Missense c.7390G>C p.S2351 T uc010cpt.1 P88 NRAS 4893 1 15058052 Missense c.436A>G p.Q61 R uc009wgu.1 P88 PIK3C2A 5286 171 14687 Missense c.1832A>G p.D589G uc001 mmq.2 P88 PLK1 5347 23599822 Missense c.717G>T P.V222L uc002dlz.1 P88 Gene Name Gene ID Start_position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID SAMHD1 25939 34973148 Missense c.1287T>G P.I386S uc002xgh.1 P88 SLC27A5 10998 63714890 Frame_Shift_Del c.268 268delC p.P82fs uc002qtc.1 P88 SOX8 30812 973775 Missense c.584C>T p.R157C uc002ckn.1 P88 STX16 8675 56684652 Nonsense c.1612G>T p.E293* uc002xzi.1 P88 TSC2 7249 2061594 Missense c.2028G>A p.S641 N uc002con.1 P88 ZNF146 7705 41419850 Missense c.2191 A>G p.Q223R uc002odq.2 P88 ZNF668 79759 30980681 Missense c.1426G>T p.V357L uc010caf.1 P88 GALK2 2585 47249819 Missense c.106C>A p.T3K uc001 zxj.1 P89 MYH7B 57644 33046900 Missense c.3019A>G p.E976G uc002xbi.1 P89 NFKBIA 4792 34943526 Missense c.186C>A p.L26M uc001wtf.2 P89 PASD1 139135 150583294 Missense c.1221 T>C p.Y297H uc004fev.2 P89 PHKA2 5256 18825279 Missense c.3635C>G p.R1069G uc004c v.2 P89 SEMA4G 57715 102733150 Missense c.2188C>A p.L602l uc001 krw.1 P89 TCF3 6929 1583078 Missense c.287G>C p.S86T uc002ltp.1 P89 TJP2 9414 71039274 Missense c.1971 C>G p.R591 G uc004ahe.1 P89 VASH1 22846 76306148 Splice_Site_SNP c.e2 splice site uc001 xst.2 P89 DNAH1 25981 52379823 Missense c.6543A>G p.E2156G uc003dds.1 P90 DNHD1 144132 6545248 Missense c.6207G>C p.R2032P uc001 mdw.2 P90 HACE1 57531 105305028 Nonsense c.2501 C>T p.Q742* uc003pqu.1 P90 HIST1 H1 D 3007 26342680 Missense c.516A>G p.K154R uc003nhd.1 P90 ICA1 L 130026 203361882 Missense c.1323G>T p.G387W uc002uzh.1 P90 LGSN 51557 64053489 Missense c.326G>A p.V98M uc003peh.1 P90 NOC2L 26155 881356 Nonsense c.648C>T p.Q197* uc009vjq.1 P90 OGFR 1 1054 60915226 Missense c.1849G>T p.R605L uc002ydj.1 P90 PGBD5 79605 228564713 Missense c.350C>T p.T1 17M uc001 htv.1 P90 ROB01 6091 79070687 Missense c.253G>A p.A85T uc003dqe.1 P90 SEMA3E 9723 82835175 Missense c.2457C>T p.T664M uc003uhy.1 P90 TP53 7157 7518933 Missense c.835A>G p.H214R uc002gim.2 P90 XRCC5 7520 216700595 Missense c.923T>C p.L297S uc002vfy.1 P90 ZNF142 7701 219217088 Nonsense c.2831 G>T p.E799* uc002vin.1 P90 ZNF579 163033 60781946 Missense c.925T>G p.V291 G uc002qlh.1 P90 ACSM2A 123876 20390445 Missense c.1066C>A p.P276H uc010bwe.1 P91 AFTPH 54812 64633697 Missense c.1617A>G p.K529E uc002sdc.1 P91 C16orf57 79650 5661 1602 Missense c.833A>C p.Q250H uc002emz.1 P91 C8orf47 2031 1 1 99170605 Missense c.332T>A p.L62l uc003yih.1 P91 CELF3 1 1 189 149946729 Missense c.1444C>A p.A217D uc001 eys.1 P91 DNHD1 144132 6536735 Missense c.3513C>T p.A1 134V uc001 mdw.2 P91 F2R 2149 76064393 Missense c.852T>C P.I196T uc003ken.2 P91 FAM50A 9130 153331803 Missense c.1028T>A P.I318N uc004flk.1 P91 FNDC3B 64778 173495877 Missense c.937T>A p.L294M uc010hwt.1 P91 GDF2 2658 48033667 Missense c.1370G>A p.V403l uc001jfa.1 P91 GOLGA4 2803 37344179 Missense c.6168C>G p.A1955G uc003cgw.1 P91 HCK 3055 30131240 Nonsense c.602G>A p.W144* uc002wxh.1 P91 KIAA0467 23334 43671006 Missense c.3316C>T p.R952W uc001 cjk.1 P91 KIAA0947 23379 5516221 Frame_Shift_Del c.3996_3999delTC p.T1258fs uc003jdm.2 P91 KRT17 3872 37033980 Missense c.356G>A p.R103H uc002hxh.1 P91 MAGEC1 9947 140821627 Missense c.1057G>C p.Q257H uc004fbt.1 P91 MLL 4297 1 17880825 Missense c.9031 A>T p.D3003V uc001 ptb.1 P91 NIN 51 199 50302815 Missense c.1786G>C p.R532T uc001wyi.1 P91 NPC1 4864 19390537 Missense c.1 157G>C p.E332Q uc002kum.2 P91 OLR1 4973 10204214 Missense c.793T>G p.L227V uc001 qxo.1 P91 PDE1 C 5137 31759666 Missense c.2761 A>C p.K723Q uc003tco.1 P91 POLRMT 5442 575894 Missense c.1021 A>T p.Q322L uc002lpf.1 P91 RBMX 27316 135785210 Splice_Site_SNP c.e7_splice_site uc004fae.1 P91 RNF150 57484 142008975 Missense c.1861 G>A p.E403K uc003iio.1 P91 SF3B1 23451 197975079 Missense c.2146A>G p.K700E uc002uue.1 P91 SLC46A1 1 13235 23755946 Missense c.992G>C p.W299S uc002hbf.1 P91 SYT15 83849 46382034 Missense c.1361 G>T p.S403l uc001jea.1 P91 TP53 7157 7518931 M issense_M utation c.643A>C p.S215R NM_000546 P91 TP53 7157 7513653 Read-through c.1375G>T p.*394L uc002gim.2 P91 TRO 7216 54972506 Missense c.2731 C>T p.T875M uc004dtq.1 P91 VDAC2 7417 76650736 Splice Site SNP c.e8 splice site uc001 jxa.1 P91 Table 3. Analysis of mutation rate in CLL in relation to clinical characteristics. Table 4. Calculation of background rate of non-synonymous mutation in CLL. Category Rate CpG transition 1.91 E-06 Other C:G transition 2.24 E-07 A:T transition 2.05 E-07 Any transversion 2.90 E-07 Indel + null 1.33 E-07 Total 7.25 E-07 Table 5. Summary of mutations that have been previously identified in the COSMIC database (v76) in the significantly mutated genes. Table 6. Comparison of the clinical characteristics of the discovery (n=91) vs extension (n=101) samples. Table 7. Additional mutations in the five core pathways. Gene Name Gene ID Start_position Variant Classification cDNA Change Protein Change Annotation Patient ID Pathway DNA damage and Cell cycle control Inflammatory pathways RNA processing Table 8. Clinical characteristics of CLL patients harboring the 9 driver mutations. TP53 Protein Pt: Treatment status Mutation type Cytogenetic abnormalities ZAP70 IGHV change Untreated P74 LlllR Missense del (17p) No Unmut P62 R273C Missense None No Mut P76 H193L Missense del(13q) No Mut P49 N131del In frame del del(13q);del(17p) Yes Un P90 H214R Missense del(17p) N/A N/A Treated P3 R248Q Missense del(13q);del(17p) Yes Unmut Trisomy 12; del(13q);del P9 I255F Missense No Unmut (17p) P41 C238S Missense del(13q);del(17p) No Unmut Trisomy 12; del(13q);del P42 D281N Missense Yes Mut (17p) S215R Missense P91 del(13q) Yes Unmut *394L Read through del(13q);del(llq);del P72 G187_splice Splice site Yes Unmut (17p) P33 R273H Missense del(13q); del(17p) Yes Unmut P39 C135Y Missense del(13q); del(17p) Yes Unmut Tri(12), del(13q);del P65 R273H Missense Yes Unmut (17p) ATM Protein Pt: Treatment status Mutation type Cytogenetic abnormalities ZAP70 IGHV change Untreated P8 L2135fs Frame shift None N/A Unmut P17 Y1252F Missense del(13q) No Mut P23 H2038R Missense Trisomy 12 Yes N/A Treated P5 Y2954C Missense del(13q);del(llq) Yes Mut Q2522H Missense Trisomy 12; del(13q) P73 Yes N/A Y2817* Stop (13q);del(llq) P48 L546fs Frame shift Del(13q);del(llq) Yes Unmut C1726_splic P85 Splice site Del(13q);del(llq) Yes Unmut e P61 K468fs Frame shift normal No N/A 10 MYD88 Protein Pt: Treatment status Mutation type Cytogenetic abnormalities ZAP70 IGHV change Untreated P17 L265P Missense del(13q) No Mut P18 M232T Missense del (13q) No Mut P20 L265P Missense del(13q) Yes Mut P25 L265P Missense Trisomy 12; del (13q) No Mut P67 M232T Missense del (13q) No Mut P31 L265P Missense del (13q) Yes Mut Treated P5 L265P Missense del (13q); del (l lq) Yes Mut P46 P258L Missense del (13q); del (17p) No Mut P66 L265P Missense del (13q) No Mut 5 SF3B1 Protein Pt: Treatment status Mutation type Cytogenetic abnormalities ZAP70 IGHV change Untreated P32 K700E Missense del (13q); del (l lq) No Unmut P8 G742D Missense None N/A Unmut P37 K700E Missense del (l lq) Yes Mut P43 K700E Missense del (l lq); del (17p) Yes Unmut P51 G742D Missense del (l lq) N/A N/A P58 G740E Missense del (13q) Yes Unmut P84 K741N Missense normal No Unmut Treated P6 N626H Missense del (13q); del (l lq) No Unmut P40 Q903R Missense del (13q); del (l lq) Yes Unmut P60 R625L Missense del (13q); del (l lq) Yes Unmut P91 K700E Missense del (13q) Yes Unmut P59 K700E Missense del (13q); del (17p) Yes Unmut P61 K700E Missense normal N/A N/A P85 K700E Missense Del (13q); del (l lq) Yes Unmut FBXW7 Protein Pt: Treatment status Mutation type Cytogenetic abnormalities ZAP70 IGHV change Treated P12 R505C Missense del (13q) No Mut G597E Missense P35 del (l lq) Yes Unmut F280L Missense P42 R465H Missense del (13q); del (17p) Yes Mut 0 DDX3X Protein Pt: Treatment status Mutation type Cytogenetic abnormalities ZAP70 IGHV change Treated P3 S24* Nonsense del (13q); del (17p) Yes Unmut P6 K342_splice Splice site del (13q); del (1 lq) No Unmut P37 S410fs Frame shift del (l lq) Yes Mut MAPK1 Protein Pt: Treatment status Mutation type Cytogenetic abnormalities ZAP70 IGHV change Treated Y316F Missense P29 del (13q) N/A Mut D291G Missense P47 D162N Missense del (13q) Yes Unmut NOTCH1 Protein Pt: Treatment status Mutation type Cytogenetic abnormalities ZAP70 IGHV change Untreated P27 P2514fs Frame shift Tri (12) No N/A Tri (12), del (13q); del P82 P2514fs Frame shift Yes Unmut (17p) Treated P65 P2514fs Frame shift del (13q); del (17p) Yes Unmut Tri (12), del (13q); del P87 P2514fs Frame shift yes Unmut (l lq) ZMYM3 Protein Pt: Treatment status Mutation type Cytogenetic abnormalities ZAP70 IGHV change Untreated P13 S1254T Missense del (13q) N/A Mut P86 F1302S Missense Normal Yes Unmut P38 S53fs Frame shift del(l lq) Yes Unmut Treated P35 Q399* Nonsense del (13q) Yes Unmut 5 Table 9. Associations of driver mutations and (A) clinical characteristics and (B) FISH cytogenetics. A. B. Note on multiple-hypothesis corrections: q-valeu (1 )=corrected for 9 hypotheses (the 9 possible genes being considered) q-value (2)=corrected for 45 hypotheses (all combinations of genes x cytogentic abnormalities) Table 10. % Tumor cells harboring cytogenetic abnormalities. del(13q) Patient ID del(13q) het homo trisomy 12 del(1 1 q) del(17p) P1 86 0 0 90 0 P2 0 0 0 0 0 P3 80 0 0 0 28 P4 0 46 0 0 0 P5 73 0 0 86 0 P6 40 10 0 15 0 P7 17 0 0 32 0 P8 0 0 0 0 0 P9 16 0 75 0 14 P10 10 0 0 0 0 P1 1 63 26 0 0 0 P12 16 0 35 0 8 P13 39 0 0 0 7 P14 88 0 0 0 0 P15 0 0 38 0 0 P16 0 89 0 0 0 P17 77 0 0 0 0 P18 30 0 0 0 0 P19 65 0 0 0 0 P20 61 0 0 0 0 P21 61 0 0 0 0 P22 10 0 0 0 6 P23 0 0 85 0 0 P24 0 90 0 0 0 P25 10 0 50 0 0 P26 0 27 0 0 0 P27 0 0 27 0 6 P28 83 0 0 0 0 P29 20 0 0 0 6 P30 20 0 0 0 0 P31 1 1 0 0 0 7 P32 24 0 0 89 0 P33 62 0 0 0 97 P34 20 0 0 33 0 P35 7 0 0 81 0 P36 30 0 0 43 0 P37 0 0 0 50 0 P38 0 0 0 72 0 P39 10 0 0 0 15 P40 16 0 0 27 0 P41 72 0 0 0 47 P42 72 0 18 0 86 P43 0 0 0 67 9 P44 0 0 0 0 46 P45 87 0 0 94 0 P46 26 51 0 0 1 1 P47 52 0 0 0 0 P48 96 0 0 91 0 P49 15 0 0 0 61 P50 0 0 0 0 0 P51 3 0 0 13 5 P52 6 91 0 0 0 P53 0 0 0 0 0 P54 36 7 0 0 0 P55 0 0 73 0 3 del(13q) Patient ID del(13q) het homo trisomy 12 del(11q) del(17p) P56 0 0 0 0 0 P57 4 0 56 0 0 P58 24 0 0 0 0 P59 0 0 0 0 0 P60 93 0 0 34 0 P61 0 0 0 0 0 P62 0 0 0 0 0 P63 0 0 0 0 0 P64 0 82 0 0 9 P65 23 0 0 0 43 P66 24 0 0 0 0 P67 31 0 0 0 6 P68 61 0 0 0 0 P69 4 0 0 0 0 P70 0 61 0 0 0 P71 64 0 0 7 0 P72 97 0 0 19 46 P73 100 0 35 94 0 P74 0 0 0 0 45 P75 6 0 0 0 0 P76 6 40 0 0 0 P77 71 0 0 0 0 P78 25 0 0 29 29 P79 0 0 0 0 0 P80 81 0 0 0 0 P81 0 0 0 0 0 P82 9 0 32 0 12 P83 72 0 0 0 0 P84 5 0 0 0 0 P85 87 0 0 93 0 P86 0 0 0 0 0 P87 51 0 73 89 0 P88 0 0 76 0 0 P89 0 0 0 4 0 P90 0 0 0 0 47 P91 44 0 0 0 0 Table 11. Primers for the quantitative PCR of BRD2 and RIOK3 transcripts. REFERENCES Alami, R., Fan, Y., Pack, S., Sonbuchner, T.M., Besse, A., Lin, Q., Greally, J.M., Skoultchi, A.L, and Bouhassira, E.E. (2003). Mammalian linker-histone subtypes differentially affect gene expression in vivo. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 100, 5920-5925. Antoniak, C. (1974). Mixtures of Dirichlet processes with applications to Bayesian nonparametric problems. The Annals of Statistics. 2, 1152-1174. Armistead, P., Mohseni, M., Gerwin, R., Walsh, E., Iravani, M., Chahardouli, B., Rostami, S., Zhang, W., Neuberg, D., Rioux, J., et al. (2008). Erythroid- lineage- specific engraftment in patients with severe hemoglobinopathy following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Exp Hematol. 36, 1205-1215. Austen B, Powell JE, Alvi A, et al. Mutations in the ATM gene lead to impaired overall and treatment- free survival that is independent of IGVH mutation status in patients with B-CLL. Blood 2005;106:3175-82. Babaei-Jadidi R, Li N, Saadeddin A, et al. FBXW7 influences murine intestinal homeostasis and cancer, targeting Notch, Jun, and DEK for degradation. J Exp Med 2011;208:295-312. Benjamini, Y., and Hochberg, Y. (1995). Controlling the false discovery rate: a practical and powerful approach to multiple testing. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. 57, 289-300. Berger MF, Lawrence MS, Demichelis F, et al. The genomic complexity of primary human prostate cancer. Nature 2011;470:214-20. Berger MF, Lawrence MS, Demichelis F, et al. The genomic complexity of primary human prostate cancer. Nature 2011;470:214-20. Beroukhim, R., Mermel, C.H., Porter, D., Wei, G., Raychaudhuri, S., Donovan, J., Barretina, J., Boehm, J.S., Dobson, J., Urashima, M., et al. (2010). The landscape of somatic copy-number alteration across human cancers. Nature. 463, 899-905. Bos, J.L. (1989). ras oncogenes in human cancer: a review. Cancer Res. 49, 4682- 4689. Brown, J.R., Hanna, M., Tesar, B., Werner, L., Pochet, N., Asara, J.M., Wang, Y.E., Dal Cin, P., Fernandes, S.M., Thompson, C, et al. (2012). Integrative genomic analysis implicates gain of PIK3CA at 3q26 and MYC at 8q24 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Clin Cancer Res. 18, 3791-3802. Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network. Comprehensive genomic characterization defines human glioblastoma genes and core pathways. Nature 2008;455: 1061-8. Cancer Genome Atlas Research Network. Integrated genomic analyses of ovarian carcinoma. Nature 2011;474:609-15. Carter, S.L., Cibulskis, K., Helman, E., McKenna, A., Shen, H., Zack, T., Laird, P.W., Onofrio, R.C., Winckler, W., Weir, B.A., et al. (2012). Absolute quantification of somatic DNA alterations in human cancer. Nat Biotechnol. 30, 413-421. Carter, S.L., Meyerson, M., & Getz, G. (2011). Accurate estimation of homologue- specific DNA concentration ratios in cancer samples allows long-range haplotyping. . Available from Nature Precedings online. Chapman MA, Lawrence MS, Keats JJ, et al. Initial genome sequencing and analysis of multiple myeloma. Nature 2011;471:467-72. Cheson, B.D., Pfistner, B., Juweid, M.E., Gascoyne, R.D., Specht, L., Horning, S.J., Coiffier, B., Fisher, R.L, Hagenbeek, A., Zucca, E., et al. (2007). Revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma. J Clin Oncol. 25, 579-586. Cibulskis, K., McKenna, A., Fennell, T., Banks, E., DePristo, M., and Getz, G. (2011). ContEst: estimating cross-contamination of human samples in next-generation sequencing data. Bioinformatics. 27, 2601-2602. CLL Trialists Collaborative Group (1999). Chemotherapeutic options in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a meta-analysis of the randomized trials. . J Natl Cancer Inst. 91, 861-868. Corrionero A, Minana B, Valcarcel J. Reduced fidelity of branch point recognition and alternative splicing induced by the anti-tumor drug spliceostatin A. Genes Dev 2011;25:445-59. Damle, R.N., Wasil, T., Fais, F., Ghiotto, F., Valetto, A., Allen, S.L., Buchbinder, A., Budman, D., Dittmar, K., Kolitz, J., et al. (1999). Ig V gene mutation status and CD38 expression as novel prognostic indicators in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Blood. 94, 1840-1847. DePristo MA, Banks E, Poplin R, et al. A framework for variation discovery and genotyping using next-generation DNA sequencing data. Nat Genet 2011;43:491-8. Deutsch, A. J., Aigelsreiter, A., Staber, P.B., Beham, A., Linkesch, W., Guelly, C, Brezinschek, R.I., Fruhwirth, M., Emberger, W., Buettner, M., et al. (2007). MALT lymphoma and extranodal diffuse large B-cell lymphoma are targeted by aberrant somatic hypermutation. Blood. 109, 3500-3504. Ding L, Getz G, Wheeler DA, et al. Somatic mutations affect key pathways in lung adenocarcinoma. Nature 2008;455: 1069-75. Ding, L., Ley, T.J., Larson, D.E., Miller, C.A., Koboldt, D.C., Welch, J.S., Ritchey, J.K., Young, M.A., Lamprecht, T., McLellan, M.D., et al. (2012). Clonal evolution in relapsed acute myeloid leukaemia revealed by whole-genome sequencing. Nature. 481, 506-510. Dohner H, Stilgenbauer S, Benner A, et al. Genomic aberrations and survival in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. N Engl J Med 2000;343: 1910-6. Dohner, H. (2005). The use of molecular markers in selecting therapy for CLL. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 3, 103-104. Edelmann, J., Holzmann, K., Miller, F., Winkler, D., Buhler, A., Zenz, T., Bullinger, L., Kuhn, M.W., Gerhardinger, A., Bloehdorn, J., et al. (2012). High-resolution genomic profiling of chronic lymphocytic leukemia reveals new recurrent genomic alterations. Blood. [Epub ahead of print] . Egan, J.B., Shi, C.X., Tembe, W., Christoforides, A., Kurdoglu, A., Sinari, S., Middha, S., Asmann, Y., Schmidt, J., Braggio, E., et al. (2012). Whole-genome sequencing of multiple myeloma from diagnosis to plasma cell leukemia reveals genomic initiating events, evolution, and clonal tides. Blood. 120, 1060-1066. Escobar, M., and West, M. (1995). Bayesian density estimation and inference using mixtures. Journal of the American Statistical Association. 90, 577-588. Eskandarpour, M., Huang, F., Reeves, K.A., Clark, E., and Hansson, J. (2009). Oncogenic NRAS has multiple effects on the malignant phenotype of human melanoma cells cultured in vitro. Int J Cancer. 124, 16-26. Fabbri G, Rasi S, Rossi D, et al. Analysis of the chronic lymphocytic leukemia coding genome: role of NOTCH 1 mutational activation. J Exp Med 2011. Fan L, Lagisetti C, Edwards CC, Webb TR, Potter PM. Sudemycins, Novel Small Molecule Analogues of FR901464, Induce Alternative Gene Splicing. ACS Chem Biol 2011. Fisher, R.A. (1932). Statistical methods for research workers, 4th edn (Oliver and Boyd). Fisher, S., Barry, A., Abreu, J., Minie, B., Nolan, J., Delorey, T.M., Young, G., Fennell, T.J., Allen, A., Ambrogio, L., et al. (2011). A scalable, fully automated process for construction of sequence -ready human exome targeted capture libraries. Genome Biol. 12, Rl. Forbes, S.A., Bhamra, G., Bamford, S., Dawson, E., Kok, C, Clements, J., Menzies, A., Teague, J.W., Futreal, P.A., and Stratton, M.R. (2008). The Catalogue of SomaticMutations in Cancer (COSMIC). Curr Protoc Hum Genet. Chapter 10, Unit 10 11. Forbes, S.A., Tang, G., Bindal, N., Bamford, S., Dawson, E., Cole, C, Kok, C.Y., Jia, M., Ewing, R., Menzies, A., et al. (2010). COSMIC (the Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer): a resource to investigate acquired mutations in human cancer. Nucleic Acids Res. 38, D652-657. Futreal, P.A., Coin, L., Marshall, M., Down, T., Hubbard, T., Wooster, R., Rahman, N., and Stratton, M.R. (2004). A census of human cancer genes. Nat Rev Cancer. 4, 177- 183. GenePattern 2.0. Nat Genet. 38, 500-501. Gerlinger, M., and Swanton, C. (2010). How Darwinian models inform therapeutic failure initiated by clonal heterogeneity in cancer medicine. Br J Cancer. 103, 1139-1143. Gerlinger, M., Rowan, A. J., Horswell, S., Larkin, J., Endesfelder, D., Gronroos, E., Martinez, P., Matthews, N., Stewart, A., Tarpey, P., et al. (2012). Intratumor heterogeneity and branched evolution revealed by multiregion sequencing. N Engl J Med. 366, 883-892. Gerstung, M., Beisel, C, Rechsteiner, M., Wild, P., Schraml, P., Moch, H., and Beerenwinkel, N. (2012). Reliable detection of subclonal single-nucleotide variants in tumour cell populations. Nat Commun. 3, 811. Getz G, Hofling H, Mesirov JP, et al. Comment on 'The consensus coding sequences of human breast and colorectal cancers'. Science 2007;317: 1500. Gnirke A, Melnikov A, Maguire J, et al. Solution hybrid selection with ultra-long oligonucleotides for massively parallel targeted sequencing. Nat Biotechnol 2009;27: 182-9. Greaves, M., and Maley, C.C. (2012). Clonal evolution in cancer. Nature. 481, 306- 313. Grossmann, V., Tiacci, E., Holmes, A.B., Kohlmann, A., Martelli, M.P., Kern, W., Spanhol-Rosseto, A., Klein, H.U., Dugas, M., Schindela, S., et al. (2011). Whole-exome sequencing identifies somatic mutations of BCOR in acute myeloid leukemia with normal karyotype. Blood. 118, 6153-6163. Grubor, V., Krasnitz, A., Troge, J., Meth, J., Lakshmi, B., Kendall, J., Yamrom, B., Alex, G., Pai, D., Navin, N., et al. (2009). Novel genomic alterations and clonal evolution in chronic lymphocytic leukemia revealed by representational oligonucleotide microarray analysis (ROMA). Blood. 113, 1294-1303. Gutierrez A, Jr., Tschumper RC, Wu X, et al. LEF-1 is a prosurvival factor in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and is expressed in the preleukemic state of monoclonal B cell lymphocytosis. Blood 2010. Hallek, M., Cheson, B., Catovsky, D., Caligaris-Cappio, F., Dighiero, G., Dohner, H., Hillmen, P., Keating, M., Montserrat, E., Rai, K., et al. (2008). Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a report from the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia updating the National Cancer Institute- Working Group 1996 guidelines. Blood. I l l, 5446-5456. Hosgood, H.D., 3rd, Baris, D., Zhang, Y., Berndt, S.I., Menashe, I., Morton, L.M., Lee, K.M., Yeager, M., Zahm, S.H., Chanock, S., et al. (2009). Genetic variation in cell cycle and apoptosis related genes and multiple myeloma risk. Leuk Res. 33, 1609-1614. Huber, W., von Heydebreck, A., Sultmann, H., Poustka, A., and Vingron, M. (2002). Variance stabilization applied to microarray data calibration and to the quantification of differential expression. Bioinformatics. 18 Suppl 1, S96-104. Irizarry, R.A., Hobbs, B., Collin, F., Beazer-Barclay, Y.D., Antonellis, K.J., Scherf, U., and Speed, T.P. (2003). Exploration, normalization, and summaries of high density oligonucleotide array probe level data. Biostatistics. 4, 249-264. Jablonski, D. (2001). Lessons from the past: evolutionary impacts of mass extinctions. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 98, 5393-5398. Johnson, W.E., Li, C, and Rabinovic, A. (2007). Adjusting batch effects in microarrayexpression data using empirical Bayes methods. Biostatistics. 8, 118-127. Kaida D, Motoyoshi H, Tashiro E, et al. Spliceostatin A targets SF3b and inhibits both splicing and nuclear retention of pre-mRNA. Nat Chem Biol 2007;3:576-83. Klein U, Tu Y, Stolovitzky GA, et al. Gene expression profiling of B cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia reveals a homogeneous phenotype related to memory B cells. J Exp Med 2001;194: 1625-38. Klein, U., Lia, M., Crespo, M., Siegel, R., Shen, Q., Mo, T., Ambesi-Impiombato, A., Califano, A., Migliazza, A., Bhagat, G., et al. (2010). The DLEU2/miR-15a/16-l cluster controls B cell proliferation and its deletion leads to chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Cancer Cell. 17, 28-40. Kotake Y, Sagane K, Owa T, et al. Splicing factor SF3b as a target of the antitumor natural product pladienolide. Nat Chem Biol 2007;3:570-5. Lee MG, Wynder C, Cooch N, Shiekhattar R. An essential role for CoREST in nucleosomal histone 3 lysine 4 demethylation. Nature 2005;437:432-5. Ley TJ, Mardis ER, Ding L, et al. DNA sequencing of a cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukaemia genome. Nature 2008;456:66-72. Li H, Ruan J, Durbin R. Mapping short DNA sequencing reads and calling variants using mapping quality scores. Genome Res 2008;18: 1851-8. Lin, K., Tarn, C, Keating, M., Wierda, W., O'Brien, S., Lerner, S., Coombes, K., Schlette, E., Ferrajoli, A., Barron, L., et al. (2009). Relevance of the immunoglobulin VH somatic mutation status in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab (FCR) or related chemoimmunotherapy regimens. Blood. 113, 3168-3171. Liu, W., Laitinen, S., Khan, S., Vihinen, M., Kowalski, J., Yu, G., Chen, L., Ewing, CM., Eisenberger, M.A., Carducci, M.A., et al. (2009). Copy number analysis indicates monoclonal origin of lethal metastatic prostate cancer. Nat Med. 15, 559-565. Lohr, J.G., Stojanov, P., Lawrence, M.S., Auclair, D., Chapuy, B., Sougnez, C, Cruz-Gordillo, P., Knoechel, B., Asmann, Y.W., Slager, S.L., et al. (2012). Discovery and prioritization of somatic mutations in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) by whole- exome sequencing. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 109, 3879-3884. Makinen, N., Mehine, M., Tolvanen, J., Kaasinen, E., Li, Y., Lehtonen, H.J., Gentile, M., Yan, J., Enge, M., Taipale, M., et al. (2011). MED 12, the mediator complex subunit 12 gene, is mutated at high frequency in uterine leiomyomas. Science. 334, 252- 255. Maley, C.C., Galipeau, P.C., Finley, J.C., Wongsurawat, V.J., Li, X., Sanchez, C.A., Paulson, T.G., Blount, P.L., Risques, R.A., Rabinovitch, P.S., et al. (2006). Genetic clonal diversity predicts progression to esophageal adenocarcinoma. Nat Genet. 38, 468-473. Mardis ER, Ding L, Dooling DJ, et al. Recurring mutations found by sequencing an acute myeloid leukemia genome. N Engl J Med 2009;361: 1058-66. Marechal, Y., Queant, S., Polizzi, S., Pouillon, V., and Schurmans, S. (2011). Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase B controls survival and prevents anergy in B cells. Immunobiology. 216, 103-109. Masica, D.L., and Karchin, R. (2011). Correlation of somatic mutation and expression identifies genes important in human glioblastoma progression and survival. Cancer Res. 71, 4550-4561. Massiello A, Roesser JR, Chalfant CE. SAP 155 Binds to ceramide-responsive RNA cis-element 1 and regulates the alternative 5' splice site selection of Bcl-x pre-mRNA. FASEB J 2006;20: 1680-2. McCarthy, H., Wierda, W.G., Barron, L.L., Cromwell, C.C., Wang, J., Coombes, K.R., Rangel, R., Elenitoba-Johnson, K.S., Keating, M.J., and Abruzzo, L.V. (2003). High expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) and splice variants is a distinctive feature of poor-prognosis chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Blood. 101, 4903- 4908. Mermel, C.H., Schumacher, S.E., Hill, B., Meyerson, M.L., Beroukhim, R., and Getz, G. (2011). GISTIC2.0 facilitates sensitive and confident localization of the targets of focal somatic copy-number alteration in human cancers. Genome Biol. 12, R41. Morin RD, Mendez-Lago M, Mungall AJ, et al. Frequent mutation of histone- modifying genes in non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Nature 2011. Mullighan, C.G., Phillips, L.A., Su, X., Ma, J., Miller, C.B., Shurtleff, S.A., and Downing, J.R. (2008). Genomic analysis of the clonal origins of relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Science. 322, 1377-1380. Muzio M, Apollonio B, Scielzo C, et al. Constitutive activation of distinct BCR- signaling pathways in a subset of CLL patients: a molecular signature of anergy. Blood 2008;112: 188-95. Myllykangas S, Ji HP. Targeted deep resequencing of the human cancer genome using next-generation technologies. Biotechnol Genet Eng Rev 2010;27: 135-58 Navin, N., Kendall, J., Troge, J., Andrews, P., Rodgers, L., Mclndoo, J., Cook, K., Stepansky, A., Levy, D., Esposito, D., et al. (2011). Tumour evolution inferred by single- cell sequencing. Nature. 472, 90-94. Navin, N., Krasnitz, A., Rodgers, L., Cook, K., Meth, J., Kendall, J., Riggs, M., Eberling, Y., Troge, J., Grubor, V., et al. (2010). Inferring tumor progression from genomic heterogeneity. Genome Res. 20, 68-80. Network CGAR. Comprehensive genomic characterization defines human glioblastoma genes and core pathways. Nature 2008;455: 1061-8. Ng PC, Kirkness EF, Whole genome sequencing. Methods Mol Biol 2010;628:215- 26. Ngo VN, Young RM, Schmitz R, et al. Oncogenically active MYD88 mutations in human lymphoma. Nature 2011;470: 115-9. Nik-Zainal, S., Van Loo, P., Wedge, D.C., Alexandrov, L.B., Greenman, CD., Lau, K.W., Raine, K., Jones, D., Marshall, J., Ramakrishna, M., et al. (2012). The life history of 21 breast cancers. Cell. 149, 994-1007. Nowak, M.A., and Sigmund, K. (2004). Evolutionary dynamics of biological games. Science. 303, 793-799. O'Neil J, Grim J, Strack P, et al. FBW7 mutations in leukemic cells mediate NOTCH pathway activation and resistance to gamma-secretase inhibitors. J Exp Med 2007;204: 1813-24. Pepper C, Thomas A, Hoy T, Milligan D, Bentley P, Fegan C. The vitamin D3 analog EB1089 induces apoptosis via a p53-independent mechanism involving p38 MAP kinase activation and suppression of ERK activity in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells in vitro. Blood 2003;101:2454-60. Puente XS, Pinyol M, Quesada V, et al. Whole-genome sequencing identifies recurrent mutations in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Nature 2011. Quesada, V., Conde, L., Villamor, N., Ordonez, G.R., Jares, P., Bassaganyas, L., Ramsay, A. J., Bea, S., Pinyol, M., Martinez-Trillos, A., et al. (2012). Exome sequencing identifies recurrent mutations of the splicing factor SF3B 1 gene in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Nat Genet. 44, 47-52. Rassenti LZ, Huynh L, Toy TL, et al. ZAP-70 compared with immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene mutation status as a predictor of disease progression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. N Engl J Med 2004;351:893-901. Rassenti, L., Jain, S., Keating, M., Wierda, W., Grever, M., Byrd, J., Kay, N., Brown, J., Gribben, J., Neuberg, D., et al. (2008). Relative value of ZAP-70, CD38, and immunoglobulin mutation status in predicting aggressive disease in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Blood. 112, 1923-1930. Reich, M., Liefeld, T., Gould, J., Lerner, J., Tamayo, P., and Mesirov, J.P. (2006). Rice, G.I., Bond, J., Asipu, A., Brunette, R.L., Manfield, I.W., Carr, I.M., Fuller, J.C., Jackson, R.M., Lamb, T., Briggs, T.A., et al. (2009). Mutations involved in Aicardi- Goutieres syndrome implicate SAMHDl as regulator of the innate immune response. Nat Genet. 41, 829-832. Robinson JT, Thorvaldsdottir H, Winckler W, et al. Integrative genomics viewer. Nat Biotechnol 2011;29:24-6. Rosner A, Rinkevich B. The DDX3 subfamily of the DEAD box helicases: divergent roles as unveiled by studying different organisms and in vitro assays. Curr Med Chem 2007;14:2517-25. Schuh, A., Becq, J., Humphray, S., Alexa, A., Burns, A., Clifford, R., Feller, S.M., Grocock, R., Henderson, S., Khrebtukova, I., et al. (2012). Monitoring chronic lymphocytic leukemia progression by whole genome sequencing reveals heterogeneous clonal evolution patterns. Blood. [Epub ahead of print] . Shah, S.P., Roth, A., Goya, R., Oloumi, A., Ha, G., Zhao, Y., Turashvili, G., Ding, J., Tse, K., Haffari, G., et al. (2012). The clonal and mutational evolution spectrum of primary triple-negative breast cancers. Nature. 486, 395-399. Shanafelt, T.D., Hanson, C, Dewald, G.W., Witzig, T.E., LaPlant, B., Abrahamzon, J., Jelinek, D.F., and Kay, N.E. (2008). Karyotype evolution on fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis is associated with short survival in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and is related to CD49d expression. J Clin Oncol. 26, e5-6. Siepel, A., Bejerano, G., Pedersen, J.S., Hinrichs, A.S., Hou, M., Rosenbloom, K., Clawson, H., Spieth, J., Hillier, L.W., Richards, S., et al. (2005). Evolutionarily conserved elements in vertebrate, insect, worm, and yeast genomes. Genome Res. 15, 1034-1050. Smoley SA, Van Dyke DL, Kay NE, et al. Standardization of fluorescence in situ hybridization studies on chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) blood and marrow cells by the CLL Research Consortium. Cancer Genet Cytogenet 2010;203: 141-8. Snuderl, M., Fazlollahi, L., Le, L.P., Nitta, M., Zhelyazkova, B.H., Davidson, C.J., Akhavanfard, S., Cahill, D.P., Aldape, K.D., Betensky, R.A., et al. (2011). Mosaic amplification of multiple receptor tyrosine kinase genes in glioblastoma. Cancer Cell. 20, 810-817. Stephens, P. J., Tarpey, P.S., Davies, H., Van Loo, P., Greenman, C, Wedge, D.C., Nik-Zainal, S., Martin, S., Varela, I., Bignell, G.R., et al. (2012). The landscape of cancer genes and mutational processes in breast cancer. Nature. 486, 400-404. Stilgenbauer, S., Sander, S., Bullinger, L., Benner, A., Leupolt, E., Winkler, D., Krober, A., Kienle, D., Lichter, P., and Dohner, H. (2007). Clonal evolution in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: acquisition of high-risk genomic aberrations associated with unmutated VH, resistance to therapy, and short survival. Haematologica. 92, 1242-1245. Subramanian A, Tamayo P, Mootha VK, et al. Gene set enrichment analysis: a knowledge-based approach for interpreting genome-wide expression profiles. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2005;102: 15545-50. Tiacci E, Trifonov V, Schiavoni G, et al. BRAF mutations in hairy-cell leukemia. N Engl J Med 2011;364:2305-15. Trbusek M, Smardova J, Malcikova J, et al. Missense Mutations Located in Structural p53 DNA-Binding Motifs Are Associated With Extremely Poor Survival in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:2703-8. Unoki, M., and Nakamura, Y. (2003). EGR2 induces apoptosis in various cancer cell lines by direct transactivation of BNIP3L and BAK. Oncogene. 22, 2172-2185. Vincent, T.L., and Gatenby, R.A. (2008). An evolutionary model for initiation, promotion, and progression in carcinogenesis. Int J Oncol. 32, 729-737. Wahl MC, Will CL, Luhrmann R. The spliceosome: design principles of a dynamic RNP machine. Cell 2009;136:701-18. Walter, M.J., Shen, D., Ding, L., Shao, J., Koboldt, D.C., Chen, K., Larson, D.E., McLellan, M.D., Dooling, D., Abbott, R., et al. (2012). Clonal architecture of secondary acute myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med. 366, 1090-1098. Wang, L., Lawrence, M.S., Wan, Y., Stojanov, P., Sougnez, C, Stevenson, K., Werner, L., Sivachenko, A., DeLuca, D.S., Zhang, L., et al. (2011). SF3B1 and other novel cancer genes in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. N Engl J Med. 365, 2497-2506. Welch, J.S., Ley, T.J., Link, D.C., Miller, C.A., Larson, D.E., Koboldt, D.C., Wartman, L.D., Lamprecht, T.L., Liu, F., Xia, J., et al. (2012). The origin and evolution of mutations in acute myeloid leukemia. Cell. 150, 264-278. Yada M, Hatakeyama S, Kamura T, et al. Phosphorylation-dependent degradation of c-Myc is mediated by the F-box protein Fbw7. EMBO J 2004;23:2116-25. Yoshida, K., Sanada, M., Shiraishi, Y., Nowak, D., Nagata, Y., Yamamoto, R., Sato, Y., Sato-Otsubo, A., Kon, A., Nagasaki, M., et al. (2011). Frequent pathway mutations of splicing machinery in myelodysplasia. Nature. 478, 64-69. Zenz T, Eichhorst B, Busch R, et al. TP53 mutation and survival in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:4473-9. Zenz T, Mertens D, Kuppers R, Dohner H, Stilgenbauer S. From pathogenesis to treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Nat Rev Cancer 2010;10:37-50. Zhang W, Choi J, Zeng W, et al. Graft-versus-leukemia antigen CML66 elicits coordinated B-cell and T-cell immunity after donor lymphocyte infusion. Clin Cancer Res 2010;16:2729-39. Zhang, L., Znoyko, I., Costa, L.J., Conlin, L.K., Daber, R.D., Self, S.E., and Wolff, D.J. (2011). Clonal diversity analysis using SNP microarray: a new prognostic tool for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Cancer Genet. 204, 654-665. OTHER EMBODIMENTS While several embodiments of the present invention have been described and illustrated herein, those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other means and/or structures for performing the functions and/or obtaining the results and/or one or more of the advantages described herein, and each of such variations and/or modifications is deemed to be within the scope of the present invention. More generally, those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that all parameters, dimensions, materials, and configurations described herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual parameters, dimensions, materials, and/or configurations will depend upon the specific application or applications for which the teachings of the present invention is/are used. Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only and that, within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereto, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described and claimed. The present invention is directed to each individual feature, system, article, material, kit, and/or method described herein. In addition, any combination of two or more such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods, if such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not mutually inconsistent, is included within the scope of the present invention. All definitions, as defined and used herein, should be understood to control over dictionary definitions, definitions in documents incorporated by reference, and/or ordinary meanings of the defined terms. The indefinite articles 'a' and 'an,' as used herein in the specification and in the claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to mean 'at least one.' The phrase 'and/or,' as used herein in the specification and in the claims, should be understood to mean 'either or both' of the elements so conjoined, i.e., elements that are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Multiple elements listed with 'and/or' should be construed in the same fashion, i.e., 'one or more' of the elements so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified by the 'and/or' clause, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to 'A and/or B', when used in conjunction with open-ended language such as 'comprising' can refer, in one embodiment, to A only (optionally including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to B only (optionally including elements other than A); in yet another embodiment, to both A and B (optionally including other elements); etc. As used herein in the specification and in the claims, 'or' should be understood to have the same meaning as 'and/or' as defined above. For example, when separating items in a list, 'or' or 'and/or' shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e., the inclusion of at least one, but also including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and, optionally, additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such as 'only one of or 'exactly one of,' or, when used in the claims, 'consisting of,' will refer to the inclusion of exactly one element of a number or list of elements. In general, the term 'or' as used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives (i.e. 'one or the other but not both') when preceded by terms of exclusivity, such as 'either,' 'one of,' 'only one of,' or 'exactly one of.' 'Consisting essentially of,' when used in the claims, shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law. As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase 'at least one,' in reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase 'at least one' refers, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non- limiting example, 'at least one of A and B' (or, equivalently, 'at least one of A or B,' or, equivalently 'at least one of A and/or B') can refer, in one embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, A, with no B present (and optionally including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, B, with no A present (and optionally including elements other than A); in yet another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, A, and at least one, optionally including more than one, B (and optionally including other elements); etc. It should also be understood that, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, in any methods claimed herein that include more than one step or act, the order of the steps or acts of the method is not necessarily limited to the order in which the steps or acts of the method are recited. In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as 'comprising,' 'including,' 'carrying,' 'having,' 'containing,' 'involving,' 'holding,' 'composed of,' and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean including but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases 'consisting of and 'consisting essentially of shall be closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the United States Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures, Section 2111.03.

### Claims

Claims What is claimed is: CLAIMS 1. A method of determining a treatment regimen for a subject having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) comprising identifying a mutation in the SF3B1 gene in a subject sample, wherein the presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B 1 gene indicates that the subject should receive an alternative treatment regimen. 2. A method of determining whether a subject having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) would derive a clinical benefit of early treatment comprising identifying a mutation in the SF3B1 gene in a subject sample, wherein the presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B1 gene indicates that the subject would derive a clinical benefit of early treatment. 3. A method of predicting survivability of a subject having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) comprising identifying a mutation in the SF3B1 gene in a subject sample, wherein the presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B1 gene indicates that the subject is less likely to survive. 4. A method of identifying a candidate subject for a clinical trial for a treatment protocol for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) comprising identifying a mutation in the SF3B1 gene in a subject sample, wherein the presence of one or more mutations in the SF3B1 gene indicates that the subject is a candidate for the clinical trial. 5. The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the mutation is a missense mutation. 6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the mutation is a R625L, a N626H, a K700E, a G740E, a K741N or a Q903R, a E622D, a R625G, a Q659R, a K666Q, a K666E, or a G742D mutation in the SF3B1 polypeptide. 7. The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the mutation in the SF3B1 gene is within exons 14-17 of the SF3B1 gene. 8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, further comprising detecting at least one other CLL-associated marker. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one other CLL-associated marker is mutated IGVH or ZAP70 expression status. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one other CLL-associated marker is a mutation is a risk allele selected from the group consisting of HIST 1H IE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. 11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, further comprising identifying at least one CLL-associated chromosomal abnormality. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one CLL-associated chromosomal abnormality is selected from the group consisting of 8p deletion, 1 lq deletion, 17p deletion, Trisomy 12, 13q deletion, monosomy 13, and rearrangements of chromosome 14. 13. A method of treating or alleviating a symptom of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) comprising administering to a subject a compound that modulates SF3B1. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said compound is spliceostatin, E7107, or pladienolide. 15. A kit comprising: (i) a first reagent that detects a mutation in the SF3B1 gene; (ii) optionally, a second reagent that detects at least one other CLL-associated marker; (iii) optionally, a third reagent that detects at least one CLL- associated chromosomal abnormality; and (iv) instructions for their use. 16. The kit of claim 15, wherein the mutation in the SF3B1 gene is a R625L, a N626H, a K700E, a G740E, a K741N or a Q903R, a E622D, a R625G, a Q659R, a K666Q, a K666E, or a G742D mutation in the SF3B1 polypeptide. 17. The kit of claim 15, wherein the mutation in the SF3B1 gene is within exons 14-17 of the SF3Bl gene. 18. The kit of any of claim 15-17, wherein the at least one other CLL-associated marker is ZAP70 expression or mutated IGVH status. 19. The kit of any of claim 15-18, wherein the at least one other CLL-associated marker is a mutation in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. 20. The kit of any of claim 15-19, wherein the at least one other CLL-associated marker is a mutation in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of TP53, ATM, MYD88, NOTCH1, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, XPOl, CHD2, or POT1. 21. The kit of any of claims 15-20, wherein the at least one CLL-associated chromosomal abnormality is selected from the group consisting of 8p deletion 1 lq deletion, 17p deletion, Trisomy 12, 13q deletion, monosomy 13, and rearrangements of chromosome 14. 22. The kit of any of claims 15-21, wherein the first, second and third reagents are polynucleotides that are capable of hybridizing to the genes or chromosomes of (i), (ii) and/or (iii), wherein said polynucleotides are optionally linked to a detection label. 23. A method comprising (a) analyzing genomic DNA in a sample obtained from a subject having or suspected of having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) for the presence of mutation in a risk allele, (b) determining whether the mutation is clonal or subclonal, and (c) identifying the subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression if the mutation is a driver event and subclonal. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the risk allele is selected from SF3B1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, and FBXW7. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the risk allele is selected from HIST 1H IE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, and EGR2. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the risk allele is selected from TP53, MYD88, NOTCHl, XPOl, CHD2, POTl, and ATM, or wherein the mutation is del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), or trisomy 12. 27. A method comprising (a) analyzing genomic DNA in a sample obtained from a subject having or suspected of having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) for presence of a mutation in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, and FBXW7, and (b) determining whether the mutation is clonal or subclonal, and (c) identifying the subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression if the mutation is subclonal. 28. The method of 27, further comprising detecting a mutation in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of TP53, MYD88, NOTCHl, XPOl, CHD2, POTl, ATM, and/or for a mutation selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. 29. A method comprising detecting, in genomic DNA of a sample from a subject having or suspected of having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), presence or absence of a mutation in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of SF3B 1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, and FBXW7, in a subclonal population of the CLL sample. 30. A method comprising (a) analyzing genomic DNA in a sample obtained from a subject having or suspected of having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) for the presence of a subclonal mutation in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HIST 1H IE, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, and FBXW7, and (b) identifying the subject as having an elevated risk of rapid disease progression if the sample is positive for the subclonal mutation. 31. The method of 30, further comprising analyzing the genomic DNA for a mutation in a risk allele selected from the group consisting of TP53, MYD88, NOTCHl, XPOl, CHD2, POT1, and ATM, and/or for a mutation selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12. 32. A kit for determining a prognosis of a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) comprising reagents for detecting subclonal mutations in one or more risk alleles selected from the group consisting of SF3B1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPK1, SAMHD1, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, and FBXW7, in a sample from a patient, and instructions for determining the prognosis of the patient based on presence or absence of said subclonal mutations, wherein the presence of a subclonal mutation indicates the patient has an elevated risk of rapid CLL disease progression, thereby determining the prognosis of the patient with CLL. 33. The kit of 32, further comprising reagents for detecting mutations in one more risk alleles selected from the group consisting of TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, POTl, and ATM, or for detecting mutations that are selected from the group consisting of del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), or trisomy 12. 34. A method comprising (a) detecting a mutation in genomic DNA from a sample obtained from a subject having or suspected of having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), (b) detecting clonal and subclonal populations of cells carrying the mutation, and (c) identifying the subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression if the mutation is a driver event present in a subclonal population of cells. 35. A method comprising (a) analyzing genomic DNA in a sample obtained from a subject having or suspected of having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) for the presence of a mutation in one or more of at least 2 risk alleles chosen from the group consisting of SF3B1, HIST1H1E, NRAS, BCOR, RIPKl, SAMHDl, KRAS, MED 12, ITPKB, EGR2, DDX3X, ZMYM3, FBXW7, ATM, TP53, MYD88, NOTCH1, XPOl, CHD2, POTl, del(8p), del(13q), del(l lq), del(17p), and trisomy 12, and (b) determining whether the mutation is clonal or subclonal, and (c) identifying the subject as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression if the mutation is subclonal. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the genomic DNA is analyzed for the presence of a mutation in one or more of at least 5 or at least 10 of the risk alleles. 37. The method of any one of claims 23-31 and 34-36, wherein the sample is obtained from peripheral blood, bone marrow, or lymph node tissue. 38. The method of any one of claims 23-31 and 34-36, wherein the genomic DNA is analyzed using whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing (WES), single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis, deep sequencing, targeted gene sequencing, or any combination thereof. 39. The method of any one of claims 23-31 and 34-36, wherein mutations in more than one risk allele are analyzed. 40. The method of any one of claims 23-31 and 34-36, further comprising treating a subject identified as a subject at elevated risk of having CLL with rapid disease progression. 41. The method of any one of claims 23-31 and 34-36, wherein the method is performed before and after treatment. 42. The method of any one of claims 23-31 and 34-36, further comprising repeating the method every 6 months or if there is a change in clinical status. 43. The method of any one of claims 23-31 and 34-36, wherein clonal or subclonal mutations and/or populations of cells are detected using whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing (WES), single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis, deep sequencing, targeted gene sequencing, or any combination thereof.
