## Patent Reference

- Title: Methods for simulating quasi-embryo genotypes and approximating disease risk
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN118339311A/en

### Abstract

Abstract Disclosed herein are methods of determining probability of disease distribution associated with a quasi-embryo by: generating phased parent chromosomes, determining one or more meiotic recombination sites of interest, and generating one or more simulated embryo genotypes. A polygenic risk model may be applied to each simulated embryo genotype to generate a polygenic risk score and determine the probability of disease distribution of one or more diseases of the quasi-embryo.

### Description

Description Translated from Chinese 模拟准胚胎基因型和逼近估计疾病发生风险的方法Methods for simulating quasi-embryo genotypes and approximating disease risk 相关申请的交叉引用CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 本申请要求2021年9月27日提交的美国临时申请号63/248,749的权益，所述申请通过引用以其整体并入本文。This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 63/248,749, filed on September 27, 2021, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 技术领域Technical Field 本公开文本总体上涉及确定疾病风险，并且更具体而言，涉及用于确定准胚胎(prospective embryo)的疾病发生风险的方法。The present disclosure relates generally to determining disease risk, and more particularly, to methods for determining the risk of a prospective embryo developing a disease. 背景技术Background technique 目前，已知针对非整倍性和单基因病的体外受精(IVF)诊所测试在家庭中进行。然而，每两对夫妇中就有一对有常见病的家族史，所述常见病受到遗传、环境和生活方式风险因素的组合的影响。此外，目前供精者诊所测试针对患上由单基因病引起的疾病子集的倾向，但是没有考虑未来胚胎患上复杂的多基因疾病的可能性。Currently, in vitro fertilization (IVF) clinic testing for aneuploidy and single gene diseases is known to be performed in families. However, one in every two couples has a family history of common diseases, which are affected by a combination of genetic, environmental and lifestyle risk factors. In addition, current sperm donor clinic testing is directed to the tendency to develop a subset of diseases caused by single gene diseases, but does not take into account the possibility of future embryos suffering from complex multi-gene diseases. 发明内容Summary of the invention 如本文所述，示例实施方案确定与准胚胎相关的疾病分布概率。生成多种模拟胚胎基因型，然后使用其生成多基因风险得分集，所述多基因风险得分集又使得能够确定所述准胚胎的一种或多种疾病的疾病分布概率。As described herein, example embodiments determine disease distribution probabilities associated with prospective embryos. A plurality of simulated embryo genotypes are generated, which are then used to generate a set of polygenic risk scores, which in turn enable determination of disease distribution probabilities for one or more diseases of the prospective embryo. 本文所述的示例实施方案允许估计与通过IVF产生的未来准胚胎相关的疾病发生或复发。目前，尽管某些方法可以基于定相的亲本基因组且使用现有胚胎的微阵列基因型分型来推断现有胚胎的基因型，但是此类方法无法提供关于与未来胚胎相关的特定疾病的发生或复发的机会的信息。鉴于与IVF相关的财务和身体代价，在进行IVF之前考虑准胚胎患上一种或多种疾病的可能性可能是有利的，使得各方都可以关于要执行的行动的过程作出更明智的决定。具有复杂疾病的个人和/或家族史的个体对此可能特别感兴趣。Example embodiments described herein allow to estimate the disease occurrence or recurrence relevant to the future quasi-embryo produced by IVF.At present, although some method can be based on the parental genome of phase determination and use the microarray genotyping of existing embryo to infer the genotype of existing embryo, this type of method can not provide the information about the occurrence of the specific disease relevant to future embryo or the chance of recurrence.In view of the finance and body cost relevant to IVF, it may be advantageous to consider that the possibility of quasi-embryo suffering from one or more diseases before carrying out IVF, so that all parties can make more sensible decision about the process of the action to be performed.The individuality with the individuality of complex disease and/or family history may be particularly interested in this. 一种预测疾病风险的可能方法是使用无关联逼近法模拟可能的胚胎。使用无关联逼近法时，胚胎基因型中的每个位点可以独立于其他位点加以处理。例如，为了模拟胚胎基因型，可以确定每种基因型来自各自父母的概率并用于构建模拟胚胎基因型。One possible way to predict disease risk is to simulate possible embryos using an uncorrelated approximation. When using an uncorrelated approximation, each locus in the embryo's genotype can be treated independently of the other loci. For example, to simulate embryo genotypes, the probability of each genotype coming from each parent can be determined and used to construct simulated embryo genotypes. 无关联逼近法在计算上相对简单快捷，并且在一些情况下可以产生令人满意的结果。然而，在胚胎基因型中的位点之间的连锁很重要的情况下，无关联逼近法有一些缺点。特定地，由于无关联逼近法没有解释在大区段中遗传的亲本染色体，所以此类逼近法低估了同胞胚胎之间的遗传变异性，这又导致低估了同胞胚胎之间在疾病风险方面的变异性和在遗传血统方面的变异性。由于胚胎从任一位父母遗传其DNA的一半，平均而言，如按主成分定量的它们的血统介于父母的血统的中间。然而，在此平均值附近存在显著变异性，导致同胞之间在遗传血统方面的变异，这在无关联逼近中是缺失的。The unrelated approximation method is relatively simple and fast in calculation, and can produce satisfactory results in some cases. However, under the very important situation of linkage between the site in the embryo genotype, the unrelated approximation method has some shortcomings. Specifically, because the unrelated approximation method does not explain the parental chromosome inherited in large sections, so this type of approximation method underestimates the genetic variability between the sibling embryos, which leads to underestimating the variability in disease risk and the variability in genetic pedigree between the sibling embryos. Because the embryo inherits half of its DNA from any one of the parents, on average, as their pedigree quantitatively by the principal component is in the middle of the pedigree of the parents. However, near this mean value, there is significant variability, causing the variation in genetic pedigree between the siblings, which is missing in the unrelated approximation method. 此外，在附近遗传位点中(例如，上位效应)或在单体型中(例如，显性)的非加性效应在对疾病风险的贡献中发挥重要作用。例如，这在寡基因情况下的一种特殊情形是复合杂合性，其中两个隐性等位基因可能没有影响或者是致病的，根据这两个等位基因是从同一父母遗传还是从不同父母遗传而定。In addition, non-additive effects in nearby genetic loci (e.g., epistatic effects) or in haplotypes (e.g., dominance) play an important role in contributing to disease risk. For example, a special case of this in the oligogenic setting is compound heterozygosity, where two recessive alleles may have no effect or be pathogenic, depending on whether the two alleles are inherited from the same parent or from different parents. 本文所述的实施方案有利地允许使用关联逼近法确定准胚胎的疾病风险。特定地，可以将亲本染色体(例如，父系染色体和母系染色体)定相以获得父系基因型和母系基因型。在一些实施方案中，还可以确定来自同胞胚胎(例如，来自前一轮IVF)的基因组信息。在关联逼近中，可以基于来自同胞胚胎的亲本染色体和基因组信息推断目的减数分裂重组位点。然后可以基于相应定相的亲本染色体和目的减数分裂重组位点模拟亲本配子，随后使用所述亲本配子生成模拟胚胎基因型。因此，关联逼近法有利地允许模拟遗传来自每位父母的染色体区段的胚胎基因型，并且允许在模拟胚胎的整个基因组中确定染色体长度的亲本单体型。这允许保存亲本血统并且导致在模拟胚胎的遗传变异性方面的准确度增加。在考虑多基因风险模型时，对连锁的考虑可能特别重要，所述多基因风险模型包括高效连锁单核苷酸多态性(SNP)，如自身免疫性病症。因此，可以对模拟胚胎进行随后的多基因风险评分以得到更准确的准胚胎疾病分布概率。Embodiments described herein advantageously allow to use association approximation to determine the disease risk of quasi-embryo.Specifically, parental chromosome (for example, paternal chromosome and maternal chromosome) can be phased to obtain paternal genotype and maternal genotype.In some embodiments, the genomic information from sibling embryo (for example, from previous round IVF) can also be determined.In association approximation, the purpose meiotic recombination site can be inferred based on the parental chromosome and genomic information from sibling embryo.Then the parental gamete can be simulated based on the corresponding phased parental chromosome and the purpose meiotic recombination site, and the parental gamete is used to generate the simulated embryo genotype subsequently.Therefore, association approximation advantageously allows simulation inheritance from the embryonic genotype of the chromosome segment of every father and mother, and allows to determine the parental haplotype of chromosome length in the whole genome of the simulated embryo.This allows to preserve the parental pedigree and causes the accuracy increase in the genetic variability of the simulated embryo.When considering the polygenic risk model, the consideration to linkage may be particularly important, and the polygenic risk model includes efficient linkage single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), such as autoimmune disorders. Therefore, subsequent polygenic risk scoring can be performed on simulated embryos to obtain more accurate disease distribution probabilities for quasi-embryos. 因此，本文提供方法用于确定与准胚胎相关的疾病分布概率。所述方法包括生成定相的母系染色体组和定相的父系染色体组以及确定一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点。所述方法还包括基于所述定相的母系染色体组、所述定相的父系染色体组和所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点生成一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型。所述方法还包括将多基因风险模型应用于所述一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型以生成多基因风险得分集，其中所述多基因风险得分集包括所述一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型中每种模拟胚胎基因型的多基因风险得分；以及基于所述多基因风险得分集确定所述准胚胎的一种或多种疾病的疾病分布概率。Therefore, methods are provided herein for determining the disease distribution probability associated with quasi-embryo. Said method comprises generating the maternal chromosome group of phase and the paternal chromosome group of phase and determining one or more target meiotic recombination sites. Said method also comprises generating one or more simulated embryo genotypes based on the maternal chromosome group of phase, the paternal chromosome group of phase and the one or more target meiotic recombination sites. Said method also comprises applying polygenic risk model to the one or more simulated embryo genotypes to generate polygenic risk score set, wherein the polygenic risk score set comprises the polygenic risk score of every kind of simulated embryo genotype in the one or more simulated embryo genotypes; And determining the disease distribution probability of one or more diseases of the quasi-embryo based on the polygenic risk score set. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述多基因风险得分将每个多基因风险得分转化为疾病相对风险。在一些实施方案中，将每个多基因风险得分转化为所述疾病相对风险还包括使用效应量模型计算所述多基因风险得分的优势比，以及基于所述优势比和与特定疾病相关的疾病患病率确定所述疾病相对风险。In some embodiments, the method further comprises converting each polygenic risk score into a relative risk of disease based on the polygenic risk score. In some embodiments, converting each polygenic risk score into the relative risk of disease further comprises calculating an odds ratio of the polygenic risk score using an effect size model, and determining the relative risk of disease based on the odds ratio and the disease prevalence associated with a specific disease. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括确定每种疾病的一个或多个风险阈值。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括确定疾病的疾病分布概率的百分比，所述百分比符合对应于所述疾病的所述一个或多个风险阈值。In some embodiments, the method further comprises determining one or more risk thresholds for each disease. In some embodiments, the method further comprises determining a percentage of the disease distribution probability for a disease that meets the one or more risk thresholds corresponding to the disease. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于种群数据将所述多基因风险得分集中的每个多基因风险得分归一化以产生归一化的多基因风险得分集，其中确定所述疾病分布概率是基于所述归一化的多基因风险得分集。在一些实施方案中，种群数据包括血统特异性种群数据。In some embodiments, the method further comprises normalizing each polygenic risk score in the polygenic risk score set based on population data to produce a normalized polygenic risk score set, wherein determining the disease distribution probability is based on the normalized polygenic risk score set. In some embodiments, the population data comprises ancestry-specific population data. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述定相的母系染色体组和所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点，使用减数分裂重组模型生成母系配子。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述定相的父系染色体组和所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点，使用所述减数分裂重组模型生成父系配子。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述父系配子和所述母系配子生成所述一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型。In some embodiments, the method also includes generating maternal gametes using the meiotic recombination model based on the maternal chromosome set of the described phase and the one or more meiotic recombination sites of the described one or more purposes. In some embodiments, the method also includes generating paternal gametes using the meiotic recombination model based on the paternal chromosome set of the described phase and the one or more meiotic recombination sites of the described one or more purposes. In some embodiments, the method also includes generating the one or more simulated embryo genotypes based on the paternal gametes and the maternal gametes. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括获得来自母系受试者的母系基因组和来自父系受试者的父系基因组。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括对所述母系基因组进行定相以生成所述定相的母系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括对所述父系基因组进行定相以生成所述定相的父系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述母系基因组或父系基因组的定相是使用基于种群的方法或基于分子的方法中的一种或多种来进行。In some embodiments, the method further comprises obtaining a maternal genome from a maternal subject and a paternal genome from a paternal subject. In some embodiments, the method further comprises phasing the maternal genome to generate the phased maternal chromosome set. In some embodiments, the method further comprises phasing the paternal genome to generate the phased paternal chromosome set. In some embodiments, the phasing of the maternal genome or the paternal genome is performed using one or more of a population-based method or a molecular-based method. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括对从所述母系受试者获得的生物样品进行全基因组测序以确定所述母系基因组。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括对从所述父系受试者获得的生物样品进行全基因组测序以确定所述父系基因组。In some embodiments, the method further comprises performing whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from the maternal subject to determine the maternal genome. In some embodiments, the method further comprises performing whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from the paternal subject to determine the paternal genome. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括确定同胞基因组信息。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述母系基因组和所述同胞基因组信息生成所述定相的母系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述父系基因组和所述同胞基因组信息生成所述定相的父系染色体组。In some embodiments, the method further comprises determining sibling genome information. In some embodiments, the method further comprises generating the phased maternal chromosome set based on the maternal genome and the sibling genome information. In some embodiments, the method further comprises generating the phased paternal chromosome set based on the paternal genome and the sibling genome information. 在一些实施方案中，对于每个模拟胚胎在整个基因组中获得染色体长度的亲本单体型。In some embodiments, parental haplotypes for chromosome length are obtained across the genome for each simulated embryo. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括获得包含多个无关个体的个体基因型的种群基因型数据。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述母系基因组和所述种群基因型数据生成所述定相的母系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述父系基因组和所述种群基因型数据生成所述定相的父系染色体组。In some embodiments, the method further comprises obtaining population genotype data comprising individual genotypes of a plurality of unrelated individuals. In some embodiments, the method further comprises generating the phased maternal chromosome set based on the maternal genome and the population genotype data. In some embodiments, the method further comprises generating the phased paternal chromosome set based on the paternal genome and the population genotype data. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括确定同胞基因组信息。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述同胞基因组、所述母系基因组和所述父系基因组确定所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点。In some embodiments, the method further comprises determining sibling genome information.In some embodiments, the method further comprises determining the one or more target meiotic recombination sites based on the sibling genome, the maternal genome, and the paternal genome. 在一些实施方案中，使用阵列测量、二代测序或全基因组测序中的至少一种确定同胞基因组信息，并且从同胞胚胎、完全生物学同胞(full biological sibling)或半生物学同胞(half biological sibling)中的至少一种获得同胞基因组信息。In some embodiments, the sibling genomic information is determined using at least one of array measurement, next generation sequencing, or whole genome sequencing, and the sibling genomic information is obtained from at least one of a sibling embryo, a full biological sibling, or a half biological sibling. 在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述准胚胎的一种或多种疾病的疾病分布概率生成另外的体外受精(IVF)周期建议。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括输出所述IVF周期建议。在一些实施方案中，所述另外的IVF周期建议指示是否进行另一轮IVF。在一些实施方案中，所述方法还包括基于所述疾病分布概率确定疾病发生风险，其中所述IVF周期建议是基于所述疾病发生风险。In some embodiments, the method further comprises generating additional in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycle recommendations based on the disease distribution probability of one or more diseases of the prospective embryo. In some embodiments, the method further comprises outputting the IVF cycle recommendations. In some embodiments, the additional IVF cycle recommendations indicate whether to perform another round of IVF. In some embodiments, the method further comprises determining a disease occurrence risk based on the disease distribution probability, wherein the IVF cycle recommendations are based on the disease occurrence risk. 类似地，本文公开一种用于确定与准胚胎相关的疾病分布概率的设备。示例设备包含处理器和存储软件指令的存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时使所述设备生成定相的母系染色体组和定相的父系染色体组并确定一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点。所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述定相的母系染色体组、所述定相的父系染色体组和所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点生成一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型。所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备将多基因风险模型应用于所述一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型以生成多基因风险得分集，其中所述多基因风险得分集包括所述一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型中每种模拟胚胎基因型的多基因风险得分；并且基于所述多基因风险得分集确定所述准胚胎的一种或多种疾病的疾病分布概率。Similarly, a device for determining the disease distribution probability associated with a quasi-embryo is disclosed herein. The example device includes a processor and a memory storing software instructions, which, when executed by the processor, causes the device to generate a phased maternal chromosome set and a phased paternal chromosome set and determine one or more target meiotic recombination sites. The processor and the memory storing software instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the device to generate one or more simulated embryo genotypes based on the phased maternal chromosome set, the phased paternal chromosome set and the one or more target meiotic recombination sites. The processor and the memory storing software instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the device to apply a polygenic risk model to the one or more simulated embryo genotypes to generate a polygenic risk score set, wherein the polygenic risk score set includes a polygenic risk score for each simulated embryo genotype in the one or more simulated embryo genotypes; and determine the disease distribution probability of one or more diseases of the quasi-embryo based on the polygenic risk score set. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述多基因风险得分将每个多基因风险得分转化为疾病相对风险。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时在将每个多基因风险得分转化为所述疾病相对风险时，进一步使所述设备使用效应量模型计算所述多基因风险得分的优势比，并且基于所述优势比和与特定疾病相关的疾病患病率确定所述疾病相对风险。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the device to convert each polygenic risk score into a relative risk of disease based on the polygenic risk score. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, when executed by the processor, when converting each polygenic risk score into the relative risk of disease, further cause the device to calculate the odds ratio of the polygenic risk score using an effect size model, and determine the relative risk of disease based on the odds ratio and the disease prevalence associated with a specific disease. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备确定每种疾病的一个或多个风险阈值。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备确定疾病的疾病分布概率的百分比，所述百分比符合对应于所述疾病的所述一个或多个风险阈值。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the device to determine one or more risk thresholds for each disease. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the device to determine a percentage of a disease distribution probability for a disease that meets the one or more risk thresholds corresponding to the disease. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于种群数据将所述多基因风险得分集中的每个多基因风险得分归一化以产生归一化的多基因风险得分集，其中确定所述疾病分布概率是基于所述归一化的多基因风险得分集。在一些实施方案中，种群数据包括血统特异性种群数据。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the apparatus to normalize each polygenic risk score in the polygenic risk score set based on population data to produce a normalized polygenic risk score set, wherein determining the disease distribution probability is based on the normalized polygenic risk score set. In some embodiments, the population data includes ancestry-specific population data. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述定相的母系染色体组和所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点，使用减数分裂重组模型生成母系配子。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述定相的父系染色体组和所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点，使用所述减数分裂重组模型生成父系配子。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述父系配子和所述母系配子生成所述一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to generate maternal gametes based on the maternal chromosome set of the phase and the one or more meiotic recombination sites of the purpose using the meiotic recombination model when executed by the processor. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to generate paternal gametes based on the paternal chromosome set of the phase and the one or more meiotic recombination sites of the purpose using the meiotic recombination model when executed by the processor. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to generate the one or more simulated embryo genotypes based on the paternal gametes and the maternal gametes when executed by the processor. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备获得来自母系受试者的母系基因组和来自父系受试者的父系基因组。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备对所述母系基因组进行定相以生成所述定相的母系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备对所述父系基因组进行定相以生成所述定相的父系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述母系基因组或父系基因组的定相是使用基于种群的方法或基于分子的方法中的一种或多种来进行。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to obtain the maternal genome from the maternal subject and the paternal genome from the paternal subject when executed by the processor. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to phase the maternal genome to generate the phased maternal chromosome group when executed by the processor. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to phase the paternal genome to generate the phased paternal chromosome group when executed by the processor. In some embodiments, the phasing of the maternal genome or paternal genome is performed using one or more of a population-based method or a molecular-based method. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备对从所述母系受试者获得的生物样品进行全基因组测序以确定所述母系基因组。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备对从所述父系受试者获得的生物样品进行全基因组测序以确定所述父系基因组。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the device to perform whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from the maternal subject to determine the maternal genome. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the device to perform whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from the paternal subject to determine the paternal genome. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备确定同胞基因组信息。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述母系基因组和所述同胞基因组信息生成所述定相的母系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述父系基因组和所述同胞基因组信息生成所述定相的父系染色体组。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to determine sibling genome information when executed by the processor. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to generate the phased maternal chromosome set based on the maternal genome and the sibling genome information when executed by the processor. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to generate the phased paternal chromosome set based on the paternal genome and the sibling genome information when executed by the processor. 在一些实施方案中，对于每个模拟胚胎在整个基因组中获得染色体长度的亲本单体型。In some embodiments, parental haplotypes for chromosome length are obtained across the genome for each simulated embryo. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备获得包含多个无关个体的个体基因型的种群基因型数据。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述母系基因组和所述种群基因型数据生成所述定相的母系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述父系基因组和所述种群基因型数据生成所述定相的父系染色体组。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to obtain population genotype data comprising individual genotypes of multiple unrelated individuals when executed by the processor. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to generate the phased maternal chromosome set based on the maternal genome and the population genotype data when executed by the processor. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions further cause the device to generate the phased paternal chromosome set based on the paternal genome and the population genotype data when executed by the processor. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备确定同胞基因组信息。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述同胞基因组、所述母系基因组和所述父系基因组确定所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions when executed by the processor further cause the device to determine sibling genome information. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions when executed by the processor further cause the device to determine the one or more target meiotic recombination sites based on the sibling genome, the maternal genome, and the paternal genome. 在一些实施方案中，使用阵列测量、二代测序或全基因组测序中的至少一种确定同胞基因组信息，并且从同胞胚胎、完全生物学同胞或半生物学同胞中的至少一种获得同胞基因组信息。In some embodiments, the sibling genomic information is determined using at least one of array measurement, next generation sequencing, or whole genome sequencing, and is obtained from at least one of sibling embryos, full biological siblings, or half biological siblings. 在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述准胚胎的一种或多种疾病的疾病分布概率生成另外的体外受精(IVF)周期建议。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备输出所述IVF周期建议。在一些实施方案中，所述另外的IVF周期建议指示是否进行另一轮IVF。在一些实施方案中，所述处理器和存储软件指令的所述存储器，所述软件指令在由所述处理器执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述疾病分布概率确定疾病发生风险，其中所述IVF周期建议是基于所述疾病发生风险。In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the device to generate additional in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycle recommendations based on the disease distribution probability of one or more diseases of the prospective embryo. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the device to output the IVF cycle recommendations. In some embodiments, the additional IVF cycle recommendations indicate whether to perform another round of IVF. In some embodiments, the processor and the memory storing software instructions, the software instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the device to determine the risk of disease occurrence based on the disease distribution probability, wherein the IVF cycle recommendations are based on the risk of disease occurrence. 另外，本文公开一种用于确定与准胚胎相关的疾病分布概率的计算机程序产品。所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时使所述设备生成定相的母系染色体组和定相的父系染色体组并确定一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点。所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述定相的母系染色体组、所述定相的父系染色体组和所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点生成一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型。所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备将多基因风险模型应用于所述一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型以生成多基因风险得分集，其中所述多基因风险得分集包括所述一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型中每种模拟胚胎基因型的多基因风险得分；并且基于所述多基因风险得分集确定所述准胚胎的一种或多种疾病的疾病分布概率。In addition, a computer program product for determining a disease distribution probability associated with a quasi-embryo is disclosed herein. The computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, causes the device to generate a phased maternal chromosome set and a phased paternal chromosome set and determine one or more target meiotic recombination sites. The computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to generate one or more simulated embryo genotypes based on the phased maternal chromosome set, the phased paternal chromosome set, and the one or more target meiotic recombination sites. The computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to apply a polygenic risk model to the one or more simulated embryo genotypes to generate a polygenic risk score set, wherein the polygenic risk score set includes a polygenic risk score for each simulated embryo genotype in the one or more simulated embryo genotypes; and the disease distribution probability of one or more diseases of the quasi-embryo is determined based on the polygenic risk score set. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述多基因风险得分将每个多基因风险得分转化为疾病相对风险。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时且在将每个多基因风险得分转化为所述疾病相对风险时，进一步使所述设备使用效应量模型计算所述多基因风险得分的优势比，并且基于所述优势比和与特定疾病相关的疾病患病率确定所述疾病相对风险。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to convert each polygenic risk score into a relative risk of disease based on the polygenic risk score. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device and when converting each polygenic risk score into the relative risk of disease, further causes the device to calculate the odds ratio of the polygenic risk score using an effect size model, and determine the relative risk of disease based on the odds ratio and the disease prevalence associated with a specific disease. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备确定每种疾病的一个或多个风险阈值。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备确定疾病的疾病分布概率的百分比，所述百分比符合对应于所述疾病的所述一个或多个风险阈值。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions that, when executed by a device, further cause the device to determine one or more risk thresholds for each disease. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions that, when executed by a device, further cause the device to determine a percentage of a disease distribution probability for a disease that meets the one or more risk thresholds corresponding to the disease. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于种群数据将所述多基因风险得分集中的每个多基因风险得分归一化以产生归一化的多基因风险得分集，其中确定所述疾病分布概率是基于所述归一化的多基因风险得分集。在一些实施方案中，种群数据包括血统特异性种群数据。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions that, when executed by a device, further cause the device to normalize each polygenic risk score in the polygenic risk score set based on population data to produce a normalized polygenic risk score set, wherein determining the disease distribution probability is based on the normalized polygenic risk score set. In some embodiments, the population data includes ancestry-specific population data. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述定相的母系染色体组和所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点，使用减数分裂重组模型生成母系配子。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述定相的父系染色体组和所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点，使用所述减数分裂重组模型生成父系配子。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述父系配子和所述母系配子生成所述一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, and the software instructions, when executed by the device, further cause the device to generate maternal gametes based on the maternal chromosome group of the phase and the one or more meiotic recombination sites of interest, using the meiotic recombination model. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, and the software instructions, when executed by the device, further cause the device to generate paternal gametes based on the paternal chromosome group of the phase and the one or more meiotic recombination sites of interest, using the meiotic recombination model. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, and the software instructions, when executed by the device, further cause the device to generate the one or more simulated embryo genotypes based on the paternal gametes and the maternal gametes. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备获得来自母系受试者的母系基因组和来自父系受试者的父系基因组。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备对所述母系基因组进行定相以生成所述定相的母系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备对所述父系基因组进行定相以生成所述定相的父系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述母系基因组或父系基因组的定相是使用基于种群的方法或基于分子的方法中的一种或多种来进行。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, and the software instructions further cause the device to obtain the maternal genome from the maternal subject and the paternal genome from the paternal subject when executed by the device. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, and the software instructions further cause the device to phase the maternal genome to generate the phased maternal chromosome group when executed by the device. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, and the software instructions further cause the device to phase the paternal genome to generate the phased paternal chromosome group when executed by the device. In some embodiments, the phasing of the maternal genome or the paternal genome is performed using one or more of a population-based method or a molecular-based method. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备对从所述母系受试者获得的生物样品进行全基因组测序以确定所述母系基因组。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备对从所述父系受试者获得的生物样品进行全基因组测序以确定所述父系基因组。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to perform whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from the maternal subject to determine the maternal genome. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to perform whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from the paternal subject to determine the paternal genome. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备确定同胞基因组信息。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述母系基因组和所述同胞基因组信息生成所述定相的母系染色体组。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述父系基因组和所述同胞基因组信息生成所述定相的父系染色体组。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which further causes the device to determine sibling genome information when executed by the device. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which further causes the device to generate the phased maternal chromosome set based on the maternal genome and the sibling genome information when executed by the device. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which further causes the device to generate the phased paternal chromosome set based on the paternal genome and the sibling genome information when executed by the device. 在一些实施方案中，对于每个模拟胚胎在整个基因组中获得染色体长度的亲本单体型。In some embodiments, parental haplotypes for chromosome length are obtained across the genome for each simulated embryo. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备获得包含多个无关个体的个体基因型的种群基因型数据。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述母系基因组和所述种群基因型数据生成所述定相的母系染色体组。所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述父系基因组和所述种群基因型数据生成所述定相的父系染色体组。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to obtain population genotype data comprising individual genotypes of multiple unrelated individuals. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to generate the phased maternal chromosome set based on the maternal genome and the population genotype data. The computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to generate the phased paternal chromosome set based on the paternal genome and the population genotype data. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备确定同胞基因组信息。在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述同胞基因组、所述母系基因组和所述父系基因组确定所述一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to determine sibling genome information. In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to determine the one or more target meiotic recombination sites based on the sibling genome, the maternal genome, and the paternal genome. 在一些实施方案中，使用阵列测量、二代测序或全基因组测序中的至少一种确定同胞基因组信息，并且从同胞胚胎、完全生物学同胞或半生物学同胞中的至少一种获得同胞基因组信息。In some embodiments, the sibling genomic information is determined using at least one of array measurement, next generation sequencing, or whole genome sequencing, and is obtained from at least one of sibling embryos, full biological siblings, or half biological siblings. 在一些实施方案中，所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述准胚胎的一种或多种疾病的疾病分布概率生成另外的体外受精(IVF)周期建议。所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备输出所述IVF周期建议。在一些实施方案中，所述另外的IVF周期建议指示是否进行另一轮IVF。所述计算机程序产品包括存储软件指令的至少一种非瞬态计算机可读存储介质，所述软件指令在由设备执行时进一步使所述设备基于所述疾病分布概率确定疾病发生风险，其中所述IVF周期建议是基于所述疾病发生风险。In some embodiments, the computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to generate additional in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycle recommendations based on the disease distribution probability of one or more diseases of the prospective embryo. The computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to output the IVF cycle recommendations. In some embodiments, the additional IVF cycle recommendations indicate whether to perform another round of IVF. The computer program product includes at least one non-transient computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions, which, when executed by a device, further causes the device to determine the risk of disease occurrence based on the disease distribution probability, wherein the IVF cycle recommendations are based on the disease occurrence risk. 前述简要总结的提供仅用于总结本文所述的一些示例实施方案的目的。因为上述实施方案只是例子，不应将它们视为以任何方式使本公开文本的范围变窄。将了解，除了上文概述的那些实施方案外，本公开文本的范围涵盖许多潜在的实施方案，其中一些将更详细地描述于下文中。The foregoing brief summary is provided only for the purpose of summarizing some of the exemplary embodiments described herein. Because the above-mentioned embodiments are only examples, they should not be regarded as narrowing the scope of the present disclosure in any way. It will be appreciated that in addition to those embodiments summarized above, the scope of the present disclosure encompasses many potential embodiments, some of which will be described in more detail below. 附图说明BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 尽管上文已经概括描述了某些示例实施方案，现将参考附图，所述附图并不一定按比例绘制。一些实施方案可以包括比图中所示的组件更少或更多的组件。Although certain example embodiments have been generally described above, reference will now be made to the drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale. Some embodiments may include fewer or more components than those shown in the figures. 图1展示了用于生成模拟胚胎基因型的多基因风险得分的示例过程概览，其可以根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案来使用。FIG. 1 illustrates an overview of an example process for generating a polygenic risk score for simulated embryo genotypes, which may be used according to some example embodiments described herein. 图2A-图2B展示了用于使用亲本支持模型对亲本基因组进行定相的示例过程，其可以根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案来使用。2A-2B illustrate an example process for phasing parental genomes using a parental support model, which may be used in accordance with some example embodiments described herein. 图3描绘根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，示例隐马尔可夫模型设定。3 depicts an example Hidden Markov Model setup, according to some example embodiments described herein. 图4描绘了根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，示例隐马尔可夫模型计算。4 depicts an example Hidden Markov Model calculation, according to some example embodiments described herein. 图5描绘了根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，示例亲本支持模型框架。5 depicts an example parent support model framework, according to some example embodiments described herein. 图6描绘了根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，疾病分布概率的操作实施例。FIG. 6 depicts an example of the operation of disease distribution probabilities, according to some example embodiments described herein. 图7A-图7L描绘了根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，如使用无关联逼近和关联逼近确定的各种疾病的疾病分布概率的操作实施例。7A-7L depict operational examples of disease distribution probabilities for various diseases as determined using the independent approximation and the dependent approximation, according to some example embodiments described herein. 图8描绘了根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，无关联逼近和关联逼近的多基因风险得分分布的实施例。8 depicts examples of polygenic risk score distributions with no association approximation and association approximation, according to some example embodiments described herein. 图9描绘了根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，使用无关联逼近和关联逼近，模拟胚胎基因型中包括的血统信息的实施例。9 depicts an example of modeling ancestry information included in an embryo genotype using an independent approximation and an associated approximation, according to some example embodiments described herein. 图10展示了根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，可以执行多种操作的示例装置的示意性框图。FIG. 10 illustrates a schematic block diagram of an example apparatus that can perform various operations according to some example embodiments described herein. 图11展示了根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，用于对亲本基因组进行定相的示例过程。FIG. 11 illustrates an example process for phasing a parental genome, according to some example embodiments described herein. 图12展示了根据本文所述的一些示例实施方案，用于生成模拟胚胎基因型的示例过程。12 illustrates an example process for generating simulated embryo genotypes according to some example embodiments described herein. 图13A-图13D描绘了对应于实施例7的各种疾病的示例疾病分布概率。13A-13D depict example disease distribution probabilities for various diseases corresponding to Example 7. 图14A-图14B展示了对应于实施例6的依照多基因风险得分十分位数的疾病优势比。14A-14B show disease odds ratios according to polygenic risk score deciles corresponding to Example 6. 图15展示了来自胚胎预测的多基因风险得分与出生孩子的关联。FIG15 shows the association of the polygenic risk score from embryo prediction with the born child. 图16展示了同胞胚胎的留传的单体型(transmitted haplotype)的示例图。FIG. 16 shows an example graph of transmitted haplotypes of sibling embryos. 图17展示了用于基于使用关联逼近的输出进行一个或多个行动的示例流程图。FIG. 17 illustrates an example flow chart for performing one or more actions based on the output of using associative approximation. 具体实施方式Detailed ways 现在将在下文中参考附图更全面地描述一些示例实施方案，附图中显示一些但不一定是全部实施方案。因为本文所述的发明可以以许多不同的形式来体现，本发明不应仅限于本文所述的实施方案；相反，这些实施方案的提供使得本公开文本将符合适用的法律要求。Some example embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some but not necessarily all embodiments are shown. Because the invention described herein can be embodied in many different forms, the invention should not be limited to the embodiments described herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. 本公开文本所属领域的技术人员将想到本文所述的本公开文本的许多修改和其他实施方案，它们具有前述说明和相关图示中呈现的教导的益处。因此，应理解，实施方案并不限于公开的具体实施方案，并且修改和其他实施方案意图包括在所附权利要求书的范围内。此外，尽管前述说明和相关图示在要素和/或功能的某些示例组合的背景中描述示例实施方案，但应了解，要素和/或功能的不同组合可以在不背离所附权利要求书的范围的情况下由替代性实施方案来提供。就此而言，例如，还考虑要素和/或功能的与本文明确描述的那些不同的组合，如可以在一些所附权利要求中陈述。尽管本文中采用特定术语，但它们仅以通用描述性含义使用，不用于限制性目的。Those skilled in the art of the present disclosure will think of many modifications and other embodiments of the present disclosure as described herein, which have the benefits of the teachings presented in the aforementioned description and related diagrams. Therefore, it should be understood that the embodiment is not limited to the specific embodiment disclosed, and modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included in the scope of the appended claims. In addition, although the aforementioned description and related diagrams describe example embodiments in the context of some example combinations of elements and/or functions, it should be understood that different combinations of elements and/or functions can be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard, for example, it is also considered that the combination of elements and/or functions that is different from those clearly described herein, such as can be stated in some appended claims. Although specific terms are used herein, they are only used in a general descriptive sense and are not used for restrictive purposes. 某些术语的定义Definition of Certain Terms 本文使用的技术和科学术语具有本发明所属领域技术人员一般所理解的含义，除非另外定义。以下描述和实施例中所参考的材料可从商业来源获得，除非另有说明。Technical and scientific terms used herein have the meaning commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention belongs, unless defined otherwise. Materials referenced in the following description and examples are available from commercial sources, unless otherwise specified. 术语“计算机可读介质”和“存储器”是指非瞬态存储硬件、非瞬态存储装置或非瞬态计算机系统存储器，它们可以存储计算机可执行的指令或软件程序，可以由控制器、微控制器、计算系统或计算系统的模块访问。非瞬态计算机可读介质可以由计算系统或计算系统的模块访问以检索和/或执行介质上存储的计算机可执行的指令或软件程序。示例性非瞬态计算机可读介质可以包括但不限于一种或多种类型的硬件存储器、非瞬态有形介质(例如，一种或多种存储磁盘、一种或多种光盘、一种或多种USB闪存驱动器)、计算机系统存储器或随机存取存储器(如DRAM、SRAM、EDO RAM)等。The terms 'computer-readable medium' and 'memory' refer to non-transient storage hardware, non-transient storage devices, or non-transient computer system memory that can store computer-executable instructions or software programs and can be accessed by a controller, a microcontroller, a computing system, or a module of a computing system. Non-transient computer-readable media can be accessed by a computing system or a module of a computing system to retrieve and/or execute computer-executable instructions or software programs stored on the medium. Exemplary non-transient computer-readable media can include, but are not limited to, one or more types of hardware memory, non-transient tangible media (e.g., one or more storage disks, one or more optical disks, one or more USB flash drives), computer system memory, or random access memory (e.g., DRAM, SRAM, EDO RAM), etc. 术语“计算装置”可以指代在硬件、软件、固件和/或其任何组合中体现的任何计算机。计算装置的非限制性例子包括个人计算机、服务器、膝上计算机、行动装置、智能手机、固定终端、个人数字助理(“PDA”)、自助服务终端、自定义硬件装置、穿戴式装置、智能家用装置、支持物联网(“IoT”)的装置和联网计算装置。The term 'computing device' may refer to any computer embodied in hardware, software, firmware, and/or any combination thereof. Non-limiting examples of computing devices include personal computers, servers, laptops, mobile devices, smartphones, fixed terminals, personal digital assistants ('PDAs'), kiosks, custom hardware devices, wearable devices, smart home devices, Internet of Things ('IoT') enabled devices, and networked computing devices. 术语“约”可以意指所包含的数字并不限于本文陈述的确切数字，并且意图指代基本上在所述数字附近同时不背离本发明的范围的数字。如本文所用，“约”将被本领域技术人员所理解，并且将在使用它的上下文中在一定程度上变化。如果考虑到使用它的上下文时所述术语的使用对于本领域技术人员并不清楚，则“约”将意指特定术语的最多加或减10％。The term 'about' may mean that the included numbers are not limited to the exact numbers stated herein, and are intended to refer to numbers that are substantially around the numbers while not departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein, 'about' will be understood by those skilled in the art and will vary to some extent in the context in which it is used. If the use of the term is not clear to those skilled in the art in view of the context in which it is used, 'about' will mean up to plus or minus 10% of the particular term. 术语“基因”是指编码多肽或在生物体内发挥功能作用的DNA或RNA的延伸段。基因可以是野生型基因，或者是野生型基因的变体或突变形式。“目的基因”是指可能已知或可能未知与特定表型或特定表型的风险相关的基因或基因变体。The term 'gene' refers to a stretch of DNA or RNA that encodes a polypeptide or performs a functional role in an organism. A gene can be a wild-type gene, or a variant or mutant form of a wild-type gene. 'Target gene' refers to a gene or gene variant that may or may not be known to be associated with a specific phenotype or the risk of a specific phenotype. 术语“表达”是指从DNA模板转录多核苷酸(如转录为mRNA或其他RNA转录物)的过程，和/或随后将转录的mRNA翻译为肽、多肽或蛋白质的过程。基因的表达不仅涵盖细胞基因表达，而且涵盖一种或多种核酸在克隆系统中和在任何其他背景中的转录和翻译。在核酸序列编码肽、多肽或蛋白质的情况下，基因表达是指产生核酸(例如，DNA或RNA，如mRNA)和/或所述肽、多肽或蛋白质。因此，“表达水平”可以指代样品中核酸(例如mRNA)或蛋白质的量。The term 'expression' refers to the process of transcribing a polynucleotide from a DNA template (e.g., transcribed into mRNA or other RNA transcripts), and/or the process of subsequently translating the transcribed mRNA into a peptide, polypeptide, or protein. Gene expression not only encompasses cellular gene expression, but also encompasses transcription and translation of one or more nucleic acids in a cloning system and in any other context. In the case of a nucleic acid sequence encoding a peptide, polypeptide, or protein, gene expression refers to the production of nucleic acids (e.g., DNA or RNA, such as mRNA) and/or the peptide, polypeptide, or protein. Therefore, 'expression level' can refer to the amount of nucleic acids (e.g., mRNA) or proteins in a sample. 术语“单体型”是指一组基因或等位基因，它们从单一祖先(如父亲、母亲、祖父、祖母等)一起遗传，或预期会一起遗传。术语“祖先”是指受试者已从其降生的人，或者在胚胎的情形中，潜在受试者将从其降生的人。在优选方面，祖先是指哺乳动物受试者，如人类受试者。The term 'haplotype' refers to a group of genes or alleles that are inherited together, or expected to be inherited together, from a single ancestor (e.g., father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, etc.). The term 'ancestor' refers to a person from whom a subject has been born, or in the case of an embryo, a person from whom a potential subject will be born. In preferred aspects, an ancestor refers to a mammalian subject, such as a human subject. 数据收集data collection 用于通过本文所述的方法进行分析的遗传材料可以从多种来源获得，包括体细胞(例如，白细胞、来自组织活检物的细胞)、生殖细胞(例如，精子、卵子、极体)。遗传材料可以从准胚胎的遗传亲戚(例如，生物学母亲、生物学父亲、生物学同胞、同胞胚胎、祖父母等)收集。在一些实施方案中，基因组DNA可以从父系受试者、母系受试者、同胞受试者(例如，出生孩子)、祖父母受试者等提供的全血或唾液样品提取。The genetic material for analyzing by the methods described herein can be obtained from a variety of sources, including somatic cells (e.g., leukocytes, cells from tissue biopsies), germ cells (e.g., sperm, ovum, polar bodies). The genetic material can be collected from the genetic relatives (e.g., biological mother, biological father, biological siblings, sibling embryos, grandparents, etc.) of the embryo. In some embodiments, genomic DNA can be extracted from whole blood or saliva samples provided by paternal subjects, maternal subjects, sibling subjects (e.g., birth children), grandparent subjects, etc. 模拟胚胎基因型生成-关联接近Simulating embryo genotype generation - association approach 如上所述，使用关联接近生成模拟胚胎基因型可能是有利的，使得可以在模拟胚胎的整个基因组中确定染色体长度的亲本单体型。另外，使用关联接近更准确地模拟同胞胚胎之间可能的基因型的范围(且因此PRS得分)并维持基因组血统组成(其在使用无关联基因型时丢失)，从而允许将当地血统接近(local ancestry approach)应用于风险评分。在一些实施方案中，关联逼近的某些操作可以根据以下文献中的方法来进行：Kumar等人的“Whole-genome risk prediction of common diseases in human preimplantationembryos.”Nat Med 28,513-516(2022).,2022年3月21日出版，所述文献通过引用以其整体并入本文。As mentioned above, it may be advantageous to use association to approach the generation of simulated embryo genotypes, so that the parental haplotype of chromosome length can be determined in the whole genome of the simulated embryo. In addition, association is used to approach the range of possible genotypes (and therefore PRS scores) between sibling embryos to more accurately simulate and maintain genome ancestry composition (which is lost when using unrelated genotypes), thereby allowing local ancestry to approach (local ancestry approach) to be applied to risk scoring. In some embodiments, some operations of association approximation can be performed according to the method in the following document: ' Whole-genome risk prediction of common diseases in human preimplantation embryos.' Nat Med 28,513-516 (2022) by Kumar et al., published on March 21, 2022, and the document is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 图1概述为生成模拟胚胎基因型和随后预测准胚胎疾病分布概率而进行的各个操作。这些操作更详细地概述于下文中。可以进行操作102-106以产生代表准胚胎的可能的基因型的模拟胚胎基因型。然后可以对模拟胚胎基因型进行操作108以确定模拟胚胎基因型的PRS得分(例如，疾病风险)。可以将操作102-108重复期望次数，使得可以生成准胚胎的一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型。在一些实施方案中，可能需要阈值数量的模拟胚胎基因型。在一些实施方案中，可能需要至少十种或更多种模拟胚胎基因型。然后可以生成每种模拟胚胎基因型的PRS，并且可以使用所述PRS来确定准胚胎的疾病分布概率。Fig. 1 is summarized as each operation performed for generating simulated embryo genotype and predicting the disease distribution probability of quasi embryo subsequently.These operations are summarized in more detail below.Operation 102-106 can be performed to produce the simulated embryo genotype of the possible genotype representing quasi embryo.Then operation 108 can be performed to simulated embryo genotype to determine the PRS score (for example, disease risk) of simulated embryo genotype.Operation 102-108 can be repeated the expected number of times so that one or more simulated embryo genotypes of quasi embryo can be generated.In some embodiments, the simulated embryo genotype of threshold value quantity may be required.In some embodiments, at least ten or more simulated embryo genotypes may be required.Then the PRS of every kind of simulated embryo genotype can be generated, and the PRS can be used to determine the disease distribution probability of quasi embryo. 测序Sequencing 多种基于分子的定相方法是本领域中熟知的，并且可以用于实施本文描述的方法，除非上下文另有指示。鸟枪法(shotgun)测序是指一种对来自基因组或大型基因样品的随机DNA链进行测序的方法。使DNA随机断裂成多个小区段，对所述小区段进行测序(例如，使用链终止方法)以获得读段。通过进行几轮这种碎裂和测序来获得靶DNA的多个重叠读段。然后，计算算法使用不同读段的重叠末端将随机区段的读段组装成连续序列。鸟枪法测序可以用于全基因组测序。任何合适的测序形式(包括本文所述的那些)可以用于鉴定受试者中的变体(例如，SNP)，随后可以使用所述变体作为基础用于测量指示包含该变体的染色体区段的倍性状态的遗传信号，如本文在其他地方所述。根据本发明的某些方面，可以使用层次测序进行全基因组测序。在一些实施方案中，亲本基因组序列的定相可以根据以下文献中的方法来进行：Kumar等人的WO 2021/067417，2021年4月8日公开，所述文献通过引用以其整体并入本文。A variety of molecular-based phasing methods are well known in the art and can be used to implement the methods described herein, unless otherwise indicated by the context. Shotgun sequencing refers to a method for sequencing a random DNA chain from a genome or large gene sample. DNA is randomly broken into multiple small segments, and the small segments are sequenced (for example, using a chain termination method) to obtain reads. Multiple overlapping reads of target DNA are obtained by performing several rounds of this fragmentation and sequencing. Then, the computational algorithm assembles the reads of random segments into continuous sequences using the overlapping ends of different reads. Shotgun sequencing can be used for whole genome sequencing. Any suitable sequencing format (including those described herein) can be used to identify variants (for example, SNPs) in a subject, and the variant can then be used as a basis for measuring genetic signals indicating the ploidy state of the chromosome segment containing the variant, as described elsewhere herein. According to certain aspects of the present invention, hierarchical sequencing can be used for whole genome sequencing. In some embodiments, phasing of the parental genomic sequence can be performed according to the methods in the following document: WO 2021/067417 to Kumar et al., published on April 8, 2021, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 在一些实施方案中，DNA测序可以包括例如Sanger测序(链终止测序)。DNA测序可以包括使用二代测序(NGS)或第二代测序技术，其特征通常为高可扩展性，从而允许一次对整个基因组进行测序。NGS技术通常允许一次对多个片段进行测序，从而允许在自动化过程中进行“大规模并行”测序。DNA测序可以包括第三代测序技术(例如，纳米孔测序或SMRT测序)，其通常允许获得比通过第二代测序技术可获得的读段更长的读段。测序可以包括双端(paired-end)测序，在可行的情况下，其中对DNA片段的两端进行测序，这可以提高将读段与更长测序比对的能力。DNA测序可以包括合成/连接测序(例如，测序)、单分子实时(SMRT)测序(例如，测序)、纳米孔测序(例如，OXFORD测序)、离子半导体测序(Ion Torrent测序)、组合探针锚定合成测序、焦磷酸测序等。In some embodiments, DNA sequencing may include, for example, Sanger sequencing (chain termination sequencing). DNA sequencing may include the use of next-generation sequencing (NGS) or second-generation sequencing technology, which is typically characterized by high scalability, allowing the entire genome to be sequenced at once. NGS technology typically allows multiple fragments to be sequenced at once, allowing 'massive parallel' sequencing in an automated process. DNA sequencing may include third-generation sequencing technology (e.g., nanopore sequencing or SMRT sequencing), which typically allows longer reads to be obtained than those obtainable by second-generation sequencing technology. Sequencing may include paired-end sequencing, in which both ends of a DNA fragment are sequenced, where feasible, which can improve the ability to align reads with longer sequencing. DNA sequencing may include synthesis/ligation sequencing (e.g., sequencing), single-molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing (e.g., sequencing), nanopore sequencing (e.g., OXFORD sequencing), ion semiconductor sequencing (Ion Torrent sequencing), combined probe anchor synthesis sequencing, pyrophosphate sequencing, etc. 在一些方面，定相使用从以下生成的数据：链读测序、长片段读段、基于F黏粒-池的定相、保留邻近性的转座子测序(contiguity preserving transposon sequencing)、全基因组测序、Hi-C方法、基于稀释的测序、靶向测序(包括HLA分型)或微阵列。In some aspects, phasing uses data generated from: strand-read sequencing, long fragment reads, fosmid-pool-based phasing, contiguity preserving transposon sequencing, whole genome sequencing, Hi-C methods, dilution-based sequencing, targeted sequencing (including HLA typing), or microarrays. 一些方面包括使用独立获得的稀疏定相基因型以提供指导定相的支架。计算机软件如HapCUT、SHAPEIT、MaCH、BEAGLE或EAGLE可以用于对祖先的基因型进行定相。Some aspects include using independently obtained sparsely phased genotypes to provide a scaffold to guide phasing.Computer software such as HapCUT, SHAPEIT, MaCH, BEAGLE, or EAGLE can be used to phase the genotypes of the ancestors. 基于种群的定相可以使用参考序列组，如千人基因组(1000Genomes)或单体型参考联盟(Haplotype Reference Consortium)，对基因型进行定相。在一些情况下，可以通过添加来自亲戚(如祖父母、同胞或孩子)的基因型数据来提高定相准确度。Population-based phasing can use reference sequence groups, such as 1000 Genomes or the Haplotype Reference Consortium, to phase genotypes. In some cases, phasing accuracy can be improved by adding genotype data from relatives (such as grandparents, siblings, or children). 定相的亲本基因型生成Phased parental genotype generation 为了开始用于生成模拟胚胎基因型的过程，可以针对母系和父系受试者分别生成定相的母系染色体组和定相的父系染色体组。相应染色体组可以包括对应于同源染色体对的一个或多个染色体。定相的母系染色体组和定相的父系染色体组可以各自通过分别对与母系受试者和父系受试者相关的基因组进行定相来生成，其使用各种方法，例如如上所述基于种群的方法和/或基于分子的方法。In order to begin the process for generating simulation embryo genotype, can generate respectively the maternal chromosome group of phased and the paternal chromosome group of phased for maternal and paternal experimenter.The corresponding chromosome group can comprise one or more chromosomes corresponding to homologous chromosome pair.The maternal chromosome group of phased and the paternal chromosome group of phased can each generate by respectively carrying out phased to the genome relevant to maternal experimenter and paternal experimenter, and it uses the whole bag of tricks, for example as mentioned above based on the method for population and/or based on the method of molecule. 母系基因组和父系基因组二者均可以完全定相。可以使用全基因组测序(WGS)对相应亲本基因组进行定相。在一些实施方案中，使用亲本支持模型对每个亲本基因组进行定相。亲本支持模型可以描述如下方法，所述方法组合来自一个或多个现有胚胎和父母的SNP阵列测量连同来自数据库(例如，HapMap)的重组频率，以使得能够使用类似于以下文献中所述方法的方法准确预测染色体拷贝数、插入和缺失、胚胎基因型、亲本单体型以及胚胎亲本单体型起源假说：Rabinowitz等人的美国专利号8,515,679，所述文献通过引用以其整体并入本文。亲本支持模型可以包括一个或多个减数分裂重组模型，其模拟相应亲本配子在减数分裂期间的减数分裂重组位点。The maternal genome and the paternal genome both can be phased completely.Whole genome sequencing (WGS) can be used to phase the corresponding parental genome.In some embodiments, use the parental support model that each parental genome is phased.The parental support model can describe the following method, the method combination is from one or more existing embryos and parents' SNP array measurement together with the recombination frequency from database (for example, HapMap), so that the method for using the method described in the following document accurately predicts chromosome copy number, insertion and deletion, embryo genotype, parental haplotype and embryonic parental haplotype origin hypothesis: the U.S. Patent number 8,515,679 of the people such as Rabinowitz, the document is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.The parental support model can include one or more meiotic recombination models, which simulate the meiotic recombination sites of corresponding parental gametes during meiosis. 对于全亲本基因组重建，需要两个数据源。第一，需要准父母的全基因组测序，如下所述。第二，还需要同胞基因组信息。同胞基因组信息可以以多种方式来获得。在一些实施方案中，同胞基因组信息可以通过SNP微阵列基因型、二代测序(NGS)等从同胞胚胎获得。在一些实施方案中，同胞基因组信息可以从完全生物学同胞或半生物学同胞获得，如通过WGS来获得。尽管同胞基因组信息可能在本文中被描述为是关于同胞胚胎来确定，但是在一些示例性实施方案中，本领域技术人员将了解，除了同胞胚胎外或替代地，可以使用同胞基因组信息的替代性来源，如完全生物学同胞和/或半生物学同胞。在使用SNP微阵列基因型分型来确定同胞基因组信息时需要扩增，因为胚胎活检产生DNA的量有限。For full parent genome reconstruction, two data sources are needed.The first, the full genome sequencing of prospective parents is needed, as described below.The second, sibling genome information is also needed.Sibling genome information can be obtained in a variety of ways.In some embodiments, sibling genome information can be obtained from sibling embryos by SNP microarray genotype, second generation sequencing (NGS) etc. In some embodiments, sibling genome information can be obtained from complete biology siblings or half biology siblings, such as obtained by WGS.Although sibling genome information may be described as being determined about sibling embryos in this article, in some exemplary embodiments, those skilled in the art will appreciate that, except sibling embryos or alternatively, the alternative sources of sibling genome information can be used, such as complete biology siblings and/or half biology siblings.When using SNP microarray genotyping to determine sibling genome information, amplification is needed, because the amount of DNA produced by embryo biopsy is limited. 同胞基因组数据描绘于图2A中。在图2A中，基于此实施例中的亲本单体型起源对每个SNP的等位基因测量进行图案编码。The sibling genome data is depicted in Figure 2A. In Figure 2A, the allele measurements for each SNP are pattern-encoded based on the parental haplotype origin in this example. 如图2B中所展示，亲本支持模型可以接收并处理数据源(例如，来自父母的WGS和来自一个或多个同胞胚胎的SNP微阵列基因型分型(例如，基因组信息))以生成一个或多个输出。所述一个或多个输出可以包括定相的亲本基因组(例如，定相的母系基因组和定相的父系基因组二者)、亲本起源假说和同胞胚胎基因型。亲本支持模型可以是隐马尔可夫模型(HMM)，其解释关于同胞基因型以及亲本基因型的测量以在数十万个位置之间提高准确度。表1进一步概述亲本支持模型输入和输出。As shown in Fig. 2 B, parental support model can receive and process data source (for example, from the WGS of parents and from the SNP microarray genotyping (for example, genomic information) of one or more sibling embryos) to generate one or more outputs.Described one or more outputs can comprise the parental genome (for example, the maternal genome of phased and the paternal genome of phased), parental origin hypothesis and sibling embryo genotype of phased.Parental support model can be hidden Markov model (HMM), and it explains the measurement about sibling genotype and parental genotype to improve accuracy between hundreds of thousands of positions.Table 1 further summarizes parental support model input and output. 图3展示了示例亲本支持模型设定并且图4展示了亲本支持模型输出。在一些实施方案中，支持减数分裂交叉(meiotic crossover)的亲本支持模型的完整实施涉及实施前向-后向(FBA)算法的HMM。Figure 3 illustrates example parental support model settings and Figure 4 illustrates parental support model output. In some embodiments, a complete implementation of a parental support model to support meiotic crossover involves an HMM implementing a forward-backward (FBA) algorithm. HMM是一种统计学马尔可夫模型，其中假定所建模的系统是马尔可夫过程Xt，经过“时间”t，具有不可观察的(即，隐藏的)状态{x}。所述方法假定，存在另一个过程Yt，其具有可观察的状态{y}，其经过时间的行为取决于X。目标是通过观察Y来了解X。在HMM中可以假定，对于每个时间情况t，Yt的条件分布仅取决于Xt，经由概率P(y|x)＝P(Yt＝y|Xt＝x)。此概率是发射概率。可观察序列Y＝(Y1,...,Yn)的概率可以按贝叶斯规则写作P(Y)＝∑XP(Y|X)P(X)。The HMM is a statistical Markov model in which the system being modeled is assumed to be a Markov process Xt , with an unobservable (i.e., hidden) state {x} over 'time' t. The method assumes that there is another process Yt , with observable states {y}, whose behavior over time depends on X. The goal is to learn about X by observing Y. In the HMM it can be assumed that for each time instance t, the conditional distribution of Yt depends only on Xt , via the probability P(y|x)=P( Yt =y| Xt =x). This probability is the emission probability. The probability of an observable sequence Y=( Y1 , ..., Yn ) can be written as P(Y)= ∑XP (Y|X)P(X) according to Bayes' rule. 图4进一步描绘后验概率P(Xt＝x|(y1,..,yn))，即给定观察到的状态(y1,..,yn)，在时间t时不可观察的状态x的概率。前向算法将隐状态x与(y1,..,yt)A(x,t)＝P(Xt＝x,y1,..,yt)的联合概率计算为A(x,t)＝P(Yt＝yt|Xt＝x)*∑zP(x|z,t)*A(z,t-1)，由此将相序问题t降低至相序问题t-1，如图3中所示。P(x|z,t)被称为在时间t的隐状态转换概率。则在时间n的任何隐状态x的后验概率为P(x|(y1,..,yn))～A(x,n)。FIG4 further depicts the posterior probability P(X t =x|(y 1 ,.., yn )), which is the probability of the unobservable state x at time t given the observed state (y 1 ,.., yn ). The forward algorithm calculates the joint probability of the hidden state x and (y 1 ,..,y t )A(x,t)=P(X t =x,y 1 ,..,y t ) as A(x,t)=P(Y t =y t |X t =x)*∑ z P(x|z,t)*A(z,t-1), thereby reducing the phase sequence problem t to the phase sequence problem t-1, as shown in FIG3 . P(x|z,t) is called the hidden state transition probability at time t. The posterior probability of any hidden state x at time n is then P(x|(y 1 ,.., yn ))~A(x,n). 鉴于上文，图5描绘亲本支持模型的HHM框架。对于亲本支持模型，并入以下事实：胚胎将在连续SNP上从相同的亲本同系物遗传等位基因，除非已经在两个SNP之间发生减数分裂重组(从数据库如HapMap估计概率)。基因型概率的联合分布由此组合阵列数据、通过阵列数据提出的个体胚胎基因型以及亲本单体型分型，从而可以产生基因型在各种胚胎之间的那些分布。连续SNP表示“时间”t。将所述方法单独应用于每个完整染色体，在阵列上的所有位点。每个染色体的SNP数量的范围可以为约4,300(例如，染色体21)至23,700(例如，染色体2)。所述方法可以在整个染色体上运行，而不是在基因组的更小区域上运行。这允许在箱内以及在箱之间进行交叉，以及推断有问题的基因组部分。In view of above, Fig. 5 describes the HHM framework of parental support model.For parental support model, incorporate the following fact: embryo will be from identical parental homologue hereditary allele on continuous SNP, unless meiotic recombination (estimating probability from database such as HapMap) occurs between two SNPs.The joint distribution of genotype probability combines array data thus, individual embryo genotype and parental haplotype typing proposed by array data, thereby can produce those distributions of genotype between various embryos.Continuous SNP represents ' time ' t.Described method is applied to each complete chromosome separately, all sites on array.The scope of the SNP quantity of each chromosome can be about 4,300 (for example, chromosome 21) to 23,700 (for example, chromosome 2).Described method can be run on whole chromosome, rather than on the smaller region of genome, run.This allows to intersect in case and between case, and infers problematic genome part. 下表2进一步展示了来自图5中所示的亲本支持模型的各种参数和输出。Table 2 below further illustrates various parameters and outputs from the parental support model shown in Figure 5. 图4中描绘的转换概率可以用于对连续SNP之间的减数分裂重组建模。从在SNP t-1的状态z到在SNP t的状态x的转换概率建模为：The transition probabilities depicted in Figure 4 can be used to model meiotic recombination between consecutive SNPs. The transition probability from state z at SNP t-1 to state x at SNP t is modeled as: 在方程1中，P(MG,t)和P(FG,t)是在SNP t的亲本单体型种群先验，其源自训练数据和等位基因频率公共数据库的大集合。P(MH|MHz,t)和P(FH|FHz,t)是假说转换概率，并且经由SNP t-1与SNP t之间的交叉概率从模拟SNP之间的减数分裂交叉的机会的数据库(例如，HapMap)导出。具体而言，转换概率可以表示为P(H1|H1,t)＝P(H2|H2,t)＝1-ct(例如，未发生交叉)和P(H1|H2,t)＝P(H2|H1,t)＝ct(例如，发生交叉)，其中ct是SNP t-1与SNP t之间的交叉概率。In equation 1, P(MG, t) and P(FG, t) are parental haplotype population priors at SNP t, which are derived from a large collection of training data and allele frequency public databases. P(MH|MH z , t) and P(FH|FH z , t) are hypothesis transition probabilities, and are derived from a database (e.g., HapMap) of the chance of meiotic crossover between simulated SNPs via the crossover probability between SNP t-1 and SNP t. Specifically, the transition probability can be expressed as P(H1|H1, t)=P(H2|H2, t)=1-c t (e.g., no crossover occurs) and P(H1|H2, t)=P(H2|H1, t)=c t (e.g., crossover occurs), where c t is the crossover probability between SNP t-1 and SNP t. 也描绘于图4中的发射概率可以用于解释测序亲本或同胞样品的微阵列测量中的噪声。具体而言，给定真实基因型G，发射概率是每通道数据似然的每SNP乘积：P(数据|基因型＝G)＝P(通道A上的数据|G)*P(通道B上的数据|G)。可以使用两种不同的方法对通道数据似然建模。在第一种方法中，使用简化的离散发射模型。The emission probabilities also depicted in FIG. 4 can be used to account for noise in microarray measurements of sequencing parental or sibling samples. Specifically, given the true genotype G, the emission probability is the per-SNP product of the per-channel data likelihood: P(data|genotype=G)=P(data on channel A|G)*P(data on channel B|G). Channel data likelihoods can be modeled using two different approaches. In the first approach, a simplified discrete emission model is used. 对于离散发射模型，使用方程2获得通道无关矩阵乘积：For the discrete transmit model, the channel-independent matrix product is obtained using Equation 2: 此处，din是混入(drop in)率并且dout是丢失(drop out)率。所述乘积是基于等位基因A,B在真实基因型G和测量基因型g中的数量，如表3中所示。混入(din)率和丢失(dout)率参数是使用微阵列强度数据基于个案来拟合。在一些实施方案中，可以将基因组数据混入率设为0.1％并且可以将基因组数据丢失率设为0.15％。Here, din is the drop in rate and dout is the drop out rate. The product is based on the number of alleles A, B in the true genotype G and the measured genotype g, as shown in Table 3. The din and dout rate parameters are fitted on a case-by-case basis using microarray intensity data. In some embodiments, the genomic data drop in rate can be set to 0.1% and the genomic data drop out rate can be set to 0.15%. 第二种方法是更复杂的连续发射模型。对于连续发射模型，使用二维似然P(数据|G)＝P(通道A测量|G)*P(通道B测量|G)，其中每个通道似然经由给定基因型G的已知连续分布参数化。对于得到基因型G的亲本背景，使用胚胎微阵列测量将分布参数拟合于每对夫妇中。The second approach is a more complex continuous emission model. For the continuous emission model, a two-dimensional likelihood P(data|G)=P(channel A measurement|G)*P(channel B measurement|G) is used, where each channel likelihood is parameterized by a known continuous distribution for a given genotype G. For the parental background that yields genotype G, the distribution parameters are fitted to each couple using embryo microarray measurements. 来自亲本支持模型的所得输出可以是定相的母系染色体组和定相的父系染色体组。The resulting output from the parental support model can be a phased maternal chromosome set and a phased paternal chromosome set. 模拟亲本配子生成Simulating parental gamete production 一旦生成定相的母系染色体组和定相的父系染色体，可以使用减数分裂重组模型基于定相的母系染色体组生成母系配子并且基于定相的父系染色体组生成父系配子。此外，减数分裂重组模型可以基于一个或多个目的减数分裂重组位点生成母系配子和父系配子。In case of generating the maternal chromosome group of phase and the paternal chromosome of phase, the meiotic recombination model can be used to generate the maternal gamete based on the maternal chromosome group of phase and generate the paternal gamete based on the paternal chromosome group of phase. In addition, the meiotic recombination model can generate the maternal gamete and the paternal gamete based on one or more target meiotic recombination sites. 在一些实施方案中，可以使用基于软件的方法模拟母系配子和父系配子，如通过使用如上文在图2A-图2B中所述的亲本支持模型和/或使用可能包括于亲本支持模型中的一种或多种减数分裂重组模型。在一些实施方案中，目的减数分裂重组位点(例如，表示为断裂点)可以使用基于软件的方法导出。然后，相应定相的亲本染色体组(例如，母系染色体组或父系染色体组)在目的减数分裂重组位点处相交，以生成对应的亲本配子(例如，母系配子或父系配子)。In some embodiments, software-based methods can be used to simulate maternal gametes and paternal gametes, such as by using the parental support model as described above in Figures 2A-2B and/or using one or more meiotic recombination models that may be included in the parental support model. In some embodiments, the target meiotic recombination site (e.g., expressed as a breakpoint) can be derived using a software-based method. Then, the corresponding phased parental chromosome set (e.g., maternal chromosome set or paternal chromosome set) intersects at the target meiotic recombination site to generate corresponding parental gametes (e.g., maternal gametes or paternal gametes). 模拟胚胎基因型生成Simulate embryo genotype generation 一旦生成母系配子和父系配子，可以将这些配子组合以生成模拟胚胎基因型。如上文所提及，可以将上文操作重复期望次数，使得可以生成准胚胎的一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型。在一些实施方案中，可能需要阈值数量的模拟胚胎基因型以在下游疾病概率确定中增加置信度。例如，在一些实施方案中，可能需要至少十种或更多种模拟胚胎基因型。然后可以生成每种模拟胚胎基因型的PRS，并且可以使用所述PRS来确定准胚胎的疾病分布概率，如下文进一步描述。In some embodiments, the simulated embryo genotype of the present invention can be used to generate the simulated embryo genotype.Once generate maternal gamete and paternal gamete, these gametes can be combined to generate simulated embryo genotype.As mentioned above, the above operation can be repeated with the desired number of times, so that one or more simulated embryo genotypes of accurate embryo can be generated.In some embodiments, the simulated embryo genotype of threshold value quantity may be needed to increase confidence in downstream disease probability determination.For example, in some embodiments, at least ten or more simulated embryo genotypes may be needed.Then the PRS of every kind of simulated embryo genotype can be generated, and the described PRS can be used to determine the disease distribution probability of accurate embryo, as further described below. 多基因风险得分确定Polygenic risk score determination 多基因风险评分Polygenic risk score 一旦如上所述生成一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型，可以将多基因风险模型应用于每种模拟胚胎基因型以生成对应模拟胚胎基因型的多基因风险得分(PRS)，也称为多基因得分(PGS)或遗传风险得分(GRS)。可以将一个或多个PRS存储在PRS集中。PRS可以指示具有模拟胚胎基因型的基因构成的胚胎的特定病症的风险。PRS确定在模拟胚胎基因型中存在或不存在致病变体(如从祖先基因组所遗传)。某些致病变体的存在或不存在可以增加疾病易感性。致病变体可以包括例如单核苷酸变体(SNV)、小DNA碱基插入或缺失(插入缺失)和/或拷贝数变体(CNV)。Once one or more simulated embryo genotypes are generated as described above, the polygenic risk model can be applied to each simulated embryo genotype to generate a polygenic risk score (PRS) of the corresponding simulated embryo genotype, also referred to as a polygenic score (PGS) or a genetic risk score (GRS). One or more PRS can be stored in the PRS and concentrated. The PRS can indicate the risk of a specific condition of an embryo with the gene composition of the simulated embryo genotype. The PRS determines the presence or absence of pathogenic variants (such as inherited from the ancestral genome) in the simulated embryo genotype. The presence or absence of some pathogenic variants can increase disease susceptibility. Pathogenic variants can include, for example, single nucleotide variants (SNVs), small DNA base insertions or deletions (indels) and/or copy number variants (CNVs). 特定地，多基因风险模型可以使用下文描述的方程3生成模拟胚胎基因型的多基因风险得分。Specifically, the polygenic risk model can generate a polygenic risk score for simulated embryo genotypes using Equation 3 described below. 在方程3中，βi是SNP i的相关等位基因的对数优势比，xi是SNP i的等位基因剂量，并且n是所述多基因风险模型中包括的SNP的总数。In Equation 3, β i is the log odds ratio of the associated allele of SNP i, xi is the allele dosage of SNP i, and n is the total number of SNPs included in the polygenic risk model. 表4描绘用于计算白癜风PRS的与各种致病变体相关的示例对数优势比。Table 4 depicts example log odds ratios associated with various pathogenic variants used to calculate the vitiligo PRS. 归一化Normalized 在一些实施方案中，可以使用一种或多种归一化方法将每个PRS归一化。在一些实施方案中，基于种群数据将每个PRS归一化。在一些实施方案中，所述种群数据可以是血统特异性种群数据。血统特异性种群数据可以是针对特定血统收集的种群数据。在一些实施方案中，可以评价模拟胚胎基因型的一种或多种单体型以鉴定每种单体型的对应血统。可以选择具有最大比例(例如，最大百分比)的血统用于模拟胚胎基因型，并且可以选择与该血统对应的血统特异性种群数据用于模拟胚胎基因型。因此，可以使用血统知情数据(aware data)将每种模拟胚胎基因型归一化。In some embodiments, one or more normalization methods can be used to normalize each PRS. In some embodiments, each PRS is normalized based on population data. In some embodiments, the population data can be pedigree-specific population data. Pedigree-specific population data can be population data collected for a specific pedigree. In some embodiments, one or more haplotypes of simulated embryo genotypes can be evaluated to identify the corresponding pedigree of every haplotype. The pedigree with the maximum ratio (e.g., maximum percentage) can be selected for simulating embryo genotype, and the pedigree-specific population data corresponding to the pedigree can be selected for simulating embryo genotype. Therefore, pedigree-aware data can be used to normalize every kind of simulated embryo genotype. 一种示例归一化方法是标准得分归一化，其可以在方程4中表示。One example normalization method is standard score normalization, which can be expressed in Equation 4. 在方程4中，z是归一化的PRS，x是原始PRS(如使用方程1所确定)，μ匹配种群的平均值，并且σ是匹配种群的标准差。In Equation 4, z is the normalized PRS, x is the original PRS (as determined using Equation 1), μ is the mean of the matching population, and σ is the standard deviation of the matching population. 另外，或者可替代地，可以通过将PRS居中并且将居中PRS除以标准差将PRS归一化，如下文在方程5中所描绘。Additionally, or alternatively, the PRS may be normalized by centering the PRS and dividing the centered PRS by the standard deviation, as depicted below in Equation 5. 在方程5中，z是归一化的PRS，PRS居中是居中PRS，并且σ是与模拟胚胎基因型最密切相关的种群(如千人基因组计划中所述的种群)的标准差。居中PRS值可以通过减去针对对照个体(例如，没有目的表型的个体)中的前四种主成分(PC)得分从PRS的线性回归预测的PRS值来确定，如在方程6和7中所示。In Equation 5, z is the normalized PRS, PRS centered is the centered PRS, and σ is the standard deviation of the population most closely related to the simulated embryo genotype (such as the population described in the 1000 Genomes Project). The centered PRS value can be determined by subtracting the PRS value predicted from the linear regression of the PRS for the first four principal component (PC) scores in the control individuals (e.g., individuals without the phenotype of interest), as shown in Equations 6 and 7. PRS居中＝x-xpred (6)PRS center = xx pred (6) 在方程7中，βi是SNP i的相关等位基因的对数优势比，并且(PC)i是如使用线性回归确定的对应主成分得分。在方程6中，x是PRS值并且xpred是预测PRS值。In Equation 7, β i is the log odds ratio of the associated allele of SNP i, and (PC) i is the corresponding principal component score as determined using linear regression. In Equation 6, x is the PRS value and x pred is the predicted PRS value. 疾病分布概率确定Disease distribution probability determination 在确定一个或多个PRS之后(并且在一些实施方案中，在归一化之后)，可以使用模拟胚胎基因型的每个PRS确定准胚胎疾病分布概率。在一些实施方案中，为了确定准确的疾病分布概率，可能需要阈值数量的模拟胚胎基因型。在一些实施方案中，可能需要至少十种或更多种模拟胚胎基因型。After determining one or more PRS (and in some embodiments, after normalization), each PRS of the simulated embryo genotype can be used to determine the quasi-embryo disease distribution probability. In some embodiments, in order to determine the accurate disease distribution probability, a threshold number of simulated embryo genotypes may be required. In some embodiments, at least ten or more simulated embryo genotypes may be required. 另外，对于每种目的疾病可以确定一个或多个风险阈值。在一些实施方案中，风险阈值可以是与疾病的高于平均的风险相关的PRS值(或相对风险值，如下文进一步讨论)。风险阈值可以使用临床数据或其他数据来确定。In addition, one or more risk thresholds can be determined for each disease of interest. In some embodiments, the risk threshold can be a PRS value (or relative risk value, as discussed further below) associated with a higher than average risk of the disease. The risk threshold can be determined using clinical data or other data. 转化为相对风险Converted to relative risk 在确定一个或多个PRS之后且在归一化之后，可以将每个PRS转化为疾病的相对风险(RR)。RR可以使用效应量模型来确定。效应量模型可以接收每个PRS并且根据方程8确定所述PRS的对应优势比。After determining one or more PRSs and after normalization, each PRS can be converted into a relative risk (RR) of the disease. The RR can be determined using an effect size model. The effect size model can receive each PRS and determine the corresponding odds ratio of the PRS according to Equation 8. 在方程8中，z得分是如上所述的归一化的PRS，并且ΒPRS是PRS的对数优势比。然后效应量模型可以根据方程9确定RR。In Equation 8, the z score is the normalized PRS as described above, and Β PRS is the log odds ratio of the PRS. The effect size model can then determine the RR according to Equation 9. 在方程9中，prev是疾病的患病率。一旦将PRS转化为RR，可以使用RR代替PRS来表示疾病分布概率。In Equation 9, prev is the prevalence of the disease. Once the PRS is converted to RR, RR can be used instead of PRS to express the disease distribution probability. 图7A-图7K使用各种疾病的RR描绘示例疾病分布概率。此外，在图7A-图7K中，使用无关联接近法和关联接近法二者来生成疾病分布概率。此处类似地，箭头表示相应疾病的预测风险，如针对实际胚胎所确定。如图7A-图7K中所描绘，在一些情况下，无关联接近与关联接近相当接近地逼近估计疾病分布概率，如在图7A中，其描绘克罗恩病的疾病分布概率。然而，在许多其他情形中，如通过无关联接近确定的疾病分布概率显著偏离通过关联接近确定的疾病分布概率，如在图7J中，其描绘1型糖尿病的疾病分布概率。如上所述，这种偏离是由于无关联接近没有考虑到贡献风险的变体所致，所述变体在相同单体型上连锁，一起留传，并且因此协同增加风险。Fig. 7 A-Fig. 7 K uses the RR of various diseases to describe example disease distribution probability.In addition, in Fig. 7 A-Fig. 7 K, use unrelated approach method and associated approach method to generate disease distribution probability.Similarly here, arrow represents the predicted risk of corresponding disease, as determined for actual embryo.As described in Fig. 7 A-Fig. 7 K, in some cases, unrelated approach and associated approach approach to approximate estimated disease distribution probability quite closely, as in Fig. 7 A, it describes the disease distribution probability of Crohn's disease.But, in many other situations, as approaching the disease distribution probability determined by unrelated, significantly deviate from approaching the disease distribution probability determined by associated, as in Fig. 7 J, it describes the disease distribution probability of type 1 diabetes.As mentioned above, this deviation is due to unrelated approaching the variant that does not take into account the risk of contribution, and the variant is linked on the same haplotype, is passed on together, and therefore collaboratively increases risk. 图8描绘无关联逼近和关联逼近的示例得分分布。为了更好地说明关联逼近对PRS确定的影响，可以考虑具有两个位点的简化模型。每位父母在两个位点可以是杂合的(0/1)。在无关联逼近中，孩子具有基因型0/0、0/1和1/1的概率分别为0.25、0.5和0.25。可以假定每个风险等位基因的权重是0.5，以获得图8中描绘的无关联得分分布。在关联接近中，假定这两个位点是连锁的并且可以坍缩为单一位点，其中风险等位基因的权重为1，以获得图8中描绘的关联得分分布。如图8中所示，平均PRS可以是相同的，但是PRS的分布在考虑连锁时改变。FIG8 depicts example score distributions for unlinked approximation and linked approximation. In order to better illustrate the impact of linked approximation on PRS determination, a simplified model with two sites can be considered. Each parent can be heterozygous (0/1) at two sites. In unlinked approximation, the probability that a child has genotypes 0/0, 0/1, and 1/1 is 0.25, 0.5, and 0.25, respectively. It can be assumed that the weight of each risk allele is 0.5 to obtain the unlinked score distribution depicted in FIG8. In linked approach, it is assumed that the two sites are linked and can be collapsed into a single site, where the weight of the risk allele is 1, to obtain the linked score distribution depicted in FIG8. As shown in FIG8, the average PRS can be the same, but the distribution of PRS changes when linkage is considered. 另外，图9进一步展示了关于背景性血统信息的留传，无关联接近和关联接近对模拟胚胎基因型的影响。在无关联接近中，对模拟胚胎基因型的父系贡献是不明确的，由此可能导致PRS预测风险的人为改变。相反，使用关联接近时，当地血统得以维持，从而允许PRS模型在确定风险评分时考虑当地血统接近。In addition, Figure 9 further demonstrates the effects of unrelated proximity and related proximity on simulated embryo genotypes with respect to the retention of background ancestry information. In unrelated proximity, the paternal contribution to the simulated embryo genotype is unclear, which may lead to artificial changes in the risk predicted by the PRS. In contrast, when using related proximity, local ancestry is maintained, allowing the PRS model to consider local ancestry proximity when determining the risk score. 疾病发生风险Disease risk 一旦确定准胚胎的疾病分布概率，也可以确定准胚胎的一种或多种疾病的发生风险。发生风险可以基于疾病分布概率和一个或多个阈值来确定。一个或多个阈值可以是一个或多个PRS阈值和/或RR阈值，其描绘与疾病的高风险相关的PRS。可以使用符合阈值(例如，高于阈值)的模拟胚胎基因型的百分比来确定准胚胎的发生风险。基于使用关联逼近确定的模拟胚胎基因型，发生风险可以指示特定疾病在准胚胎中发生的似然。Once the disease distribution probability of the quasi-embryo is determined, the risk of occurrence of one or more diseases of the quasi-embryo can also be determined. The risk of occurrence can be determined based on the disease distribution probability and one or more threshold values. One or more threshold values can be one or more PRS thresholds and/or RR thresholds, which depict the PRS relevant to the high risk of disease. The risk of occurrence of the quasi-embryo can be determined using the percentage of the simulated embryo genotype that meets the threshold value (for example, higher than the threshold value). Based on the simulated embryo genotype determined using association approximation, the likelihood that a specific disease occurs in the quasi-embryo can be indicated by the risk of occurrence. 例如，图6使用白癜风的RR描绘示例疾病分布概率。如图6中所示，使用如上所述生成并处理的模拟胚胎基因型确定准胚胎的疾病风险分布(例如，白癜风)。图6进一步描绘三角形，其表示基于所提供和测序的样品计算的亲本RR。另外，箭头表示实际胚胎的白癜风的预测风险。虚线是用于描绘与疾病的高风险相关的PRS的阈值。图6中显示的所得疾病分布概率表明，93％的胚胎的RR将低于等于3的阈值RR值，并且7％的胚胎的RR将等于或高于所述阈值。因此，准胚胎的发生风险可能为7％。因此，可以告知家庭、医疗服务提供者和其他各方，准胚胎具有与白癜风的高风险相关的基因型的风险相对较低。For example, Fig. 6 depicts an example disease distribution probability using the RR of vitiligo. As shown in Fig. 6, the disease risk distribution (e.g., vitiligo) of the quasi-embryo is determined using the simulated embryo genotype generated and processed as described above. Fig. 6 further depicts a triangle, which represents the parental RR calculated based on the sample provided and sequenced. In addition, the arrow represents the predicted risk of vitiligo of the actual embryo. The dotted line is the threshold value for describing the PRS associated with the high risk of the disease. The resulting disease distribution probability shown in Fig. 6 shows that the RR of 93% of the embryo will be lower than the threshold RR value equal to 3, and the RR of 7% of the embryo will be equal to or higher than the threshold value. Therefore, the risk of occurrence of the quasi-embryo may be 7%. Therefore, it can be informed that families, medical service providers and other parties that the risk of the quasi-embryo having the genotype associated with the high risk of vitiligo is relatively low. 示例实施Example Implementation 关联逼近的一次示例植入是在临床环境内。特定地，进行针对多基因病的植入前遗传测试(PGT-P)的临床环境。通常，经历IVF的女性经常具有多于所需的可用于植入的胚胎。这让她们有机会不仅使成功妊娠地机会最大化，还将传染影响母亲或她的任何家庭成员的疾病的机会降至最低。对于具有遗传组分的任何疾病而言，预测胚胎疾病风险是可能的，所述疾病包括大多数常见病和罕见病。The example implantation of association approaching is in clinical environment.Specifically, the clinical environment of preimplantation genetic test (PGT-P) for polygenic disease is carried out.Usually, the women of experience IVF often have more than the embryo that can be used for implantation required.This gives them the opportunity to not only maximize the chance of successful pregnancy, but also minimize the chance of the disease of any family member of the mother or her who will be affected by infection.For any disease with genetic component, it is possible to predict embryo disease risk, and the disease includes most common diseases and rare diseases. 植入前遗传测试已经常规用于非整倍性筛选(PGT-A)，其涉及获得胚胎活检物。然后可以通过测序或微阵列技术对在此过程中收集的胚胎细胞进行基因型分型，以收集预测特定胚胎的常见疾病风险(PGT-P)所需的碱基对水平的信息。基于这些预测，然后IVF诊所能够选择不携带升高的疾病风险的胚胎用于植入。Preimplantation genetic testing is already routinely used for aneuploidy screening (PGT-A), which involves obtaining an embryo biopsy. The embryonic cells collected during this process can then be genotyped by sequencing or microarray technology to gather information at the base pair level needed to predict common disease risks for a particular embryo (PGT-P). Based on these predictions, IVF clinics are then able to select embryos for implantation that do not carry an elevated disease risk. 然而，在一些情况下，特定轮的IVF可能产生完全确定具有高疾病风险的胚胎。如在图17的示例流程图中所描绘，可以对夫妇进行第一IVF周期(例如，周期1)。可以使用PGT-P来推断每个胚胎的疾病风险，如操作1702中所示。在操作1704时，可以基于PGT-P结果确定是否所有胚胎都具有一种或多种疾病的高风险。如果确定一个或多个胚胎没有一种或多种疾病的高风险，则可以选择那些胚胎用于植入并且不需要另外的IVF周期，使得所述过程可以前进至操作1712。In some cases, however, a specific round of IVF may produce an embryo that is completely determined to have a high risk of disease. As depicted in the example flow chart of Figure 17, the first IVF cycle (e.g., cycle 1) can be performed to a couple. PGT-P can be used to infer the disease risk of each embryo, as shown in operation 1702. In operation 1704, it can be determined based on the PGT-P results whether all embryos have a high risk of one or more diseases. If it is determined that one or more embryos do not have a high risk of one or more diseases, then those embryos can be selected for implantation and do not need other IVF cycles, so that the process can proceed to operation 1712. 如果所有胚胎都有高风险，则所述过程可以前进至操作1706，其中可以使用如上所述的关联接近模拟准胚胎。在操作1708时，可以确定准胚胎的发生风险是否符合一个或多个阈值。例如，可以设置50％的阈值，使得值等于或低于50％的发生风险符合阈值。如果确定准胚胎的发生风险高于50％，则不符合阈值。If all embryos have high risk, the process can proceed to operation 1706, wherein the association approach simulation quasi-embryo can be used as described above.When operation 1708, it can be determined whether the risk of occurrence of quasi-embryo meets one or more thresholds.For example, a 50% threshold can be set so that the risk of occurrence of a value equal to or lower than 50% meets the threshold.If it is determined that the risk of occurrence of quasi-embryo is higher than 50%, it does not meet the threshold. 如果发生风险不符合一个或多个阈值，则所述过程前进至操作1712。在操作1710时，可能不建议另一轮IVF(例如，周期2)。在准胚胎不具有疾病高风险的成功机会极小(例如，如从PGT-P所确定)时，可能出现该建议。If the risk of occurrence does not meet one or more thresholds, the process proceeds to operation 1712. At operation 1710, another round of IVF (e.g., cycle 2) may not be recommended. This recommendation may occur when the prospective embryo has a very low chance of success without being at high risk for disease (e.g., as determined from PGT-P). 如果发生风险符合一个或多个阈值，则所述过程前进至操作1710。在操作1710时，可以确定建议使用PGT-P的IVF的第二周期(例如，周期2)。If the risk of occurrence meets one or more thresholds, the process proceeds to operation 1710. At operation 1710, it may be determined that a second cycle of IVF (eg, cycle 2) is recommended using PGT-P. 不管结局如何，可以将另一轮IVF的建议输出到临床从业者(例如，医生、护士、产科医师等)、遗传学家、患者等，使得可以更好地告知参与确定下一行动过程的各方另一轮IVF的风险和潜在成功率。当预测风险在模拟胚胎基因型之间存在较大差异时，关联接近可能特别有益。Regardless of the outcome, a recommendation for another round of IVF can be output to clinical practitioners (e.g., physicians, nurses, obstetricians, etc.), geneticists, patients, etc., so that all parties involved in determining the next course of action can be better informed of the risks and potential success rates of another round of IVF. The association approach may be particularly beneficial when the predicted risks differ greatly between simulated embryo genotypes. 示例实施系统Example Implementation System 可以在多种系统上实施本文所述的方法。例如，在一些实施方案中，所述系统可以用于生成定相的亲本染色体组，确定目的重组位点，生成一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型，将多基因风险模型应用于一种或多种模拟胚胎基因型，确定疾病分布概率等。The methods described herein can be implemented on a variety of systems. For example, in some embodiments, the system can be used to generate phased parental chromosome sets, determine target recombination sites, generate one or more simulated embryo genotypes, apply a polygenic risk model to one or more simulated embryo genotypes, determine disease distribution probabilities, etc. 所述系统可以包括一个或多个系统装置，它们可以体现为一个或多个计算装置或服务器，在图10中显示为设备1000。如图10中所展示，设备1000可以包括处理器1002、存储器1004和通信硬件1006，下文中将更详细地描述它们中的每一个。尽管在图10中将各种组件展示为仅与设备1000连接，但应理解，设备1000还可以包含总线(图10中未明确显示)以供在设备1000的各种组件的任何组合之间传递信息。设备1000可以配置为执行上述各种操作。The system may include one or more system devices, which may be embodied as one or more computing devices or servers, shown as device 1000 in FIG. 10. As shown in FIG. 10, device 1000 may include a processor 1002, a memory 1004, and communication hardware 1006, each of which will be described in more detail below. Although various components are shown in FIG. 10 as being connected only to device 1000, it should be understood that device 1000 may also include a bus (not explicitly shown in FIG. 10) for transmitting information between any combination of various components of device 1000. Device 1000 may be configured to perform the various operations described above. 处理器1002(和/或协处理器或辅助处理器或以其他方式与处理器相关的任何其他处理器)可以经由总线与存储器1004通信，以供在设备的组件之间传递信息。处理器1002可以以多种不同的方式来体现，并且可以例如包括配置为独立进行的一个或多个处理装置。此外，处理器可以包括经由总线串联配置的一个或多个处理器，以使得能够独立执行软件指令、流水线操作(pipelining)和/或多线程。术语“处理器”的使用可以理解为包括单核处理器、多核处理器、设备1000的多个处理器、远程或“云”处理器或其任何组合。The processor 1002 (and/or a coprocessor or auxiliary processor or any other processor otherwise associated with the processor) can communicate with the memory 1004 via a bus for passing information between components of the device. The processor 1002 can be embodied in a variety of different ways and can, for example, include one or more processing devices configured to be performed independently. In addition, the processor can include one or more processors configured in series via a bus to enable independent execution of software instructions, pipelining and/or multithreading. The use of the term 'processor' can be understood to include a single-core processor, a multi-core processor, multiple processors of the device 1000, a remote or 'cloud' processor, or any combination thereof. 处理器1002可以配置为执行存储于存储器1004中或处理器可以其他方式访问的软件指令(例如，存储在单独的存储装置上的软件指令)。在一些情形中，处理器可以配置为执行硬编码的功能。因此，不论是通过硬件或软件方法来配置，还是通过硬件与软件的组合来配置，处理器1002表示能够在相应配置的同时根据本发明的各个实施方案进行操作的实体(例如，物理体现为电路)。可替代地，作为另一例子，在处理器1002体现为软件指令的执行器时，所述软件指令可以特定地配置处理器1002以在执行软件指令时进行本文所述的算法和/或操作。The processor 1002 may be configured to execute software instructions stored in the memory 1004 or otherwise accessible to the processor (e.g., software instructions stored on a separate storage device). In some cases, the processor may be configured to perform hard-coded functions. Thus, whether configured by hardware or software methods, or by a combination of hardware and software, the processor 1002 represents an entity (e.g., physically embodied as a circuit) capable of operating in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention while being configured accordingly. Alternatively, as another example, when the processor 1002 is embodied as an executor of software instructions, the software instructions may specifically configure the processor 1002 to perform the algorithms and/or operations described herein when executing the software instructions. 存储器1004是非瞬态的并且可以包括例如一个或多个易失性和/或非易失性存储器。换言之，例如，存储器1004可以是电子存储装置(例如，计算机可读存储介质)。存储器1004可以配置为存储信息、数据、内容、应用、软件指令等，用于使设备能够根据本文涵盖的示例实施方案进行各种功能。The memory 1004 is non-transitory and may include, for example, one or more volatile and/or non-volatile memories. In other words, for example, the memory 1004 may be an electronic storage device (e.g., a computer-readable storage medium). The memory 1004 may be configured to store information, data, content, applications, software instructions, etc. for enabling the device to perform various functions according to the example embodiments covered herein. 通信硬件1006可以是任何构件(如体现为硬件或硬件与软件的组合的装置或电路)，其配置为从/向网络和/或与设备1000通信的任何其他装置、电路或模块接收和/或传递数据。就此而言，通信硬件1006可以包括例如网络接口，用于使得能够与有线或无线通信网络通信。例如，通信硬件1006可以包括一个或多个网络接口卡、天线、总线、交换机、路由器、调制解调器和支持硬件和/或软件，或者适合于使得能够经由网络通信的任何其他装置。此外，通信硬件1006可以包括处理电路用于引起将此类信号传递至网络或者用于处理从网络收到的信号的接收。The communication hardware 1006 can be any component (such as a device or circuit embodied as hardware or a combination of hardware and software) that is configured to receive and/or transmit data from/to a network and/or any other device, circuit or module that communicates with the device 1000. In this regard, the communication hardware 1006 may include, for example, a network interface for enabling communication with a wired or wireless communication network. For example, the communication hardware 1006 may include one or more network interface cards, antennas, buses, switches, routers, modems, and supporting hardware and/or software, or any other device suitable for enabling communication via a network. In addition, the communication hardware 1006 may include processing circuitry for causing such signals to be transmitted to the network or for processing the reception of signals received from the network. 通信硬件1006可以配置为向用户提供输出，以及在一些实施方案中接收用户输入的指示。通信硬件1006包含用户界面，如显示器，并且还可以包含管理用户界面的使用的组件，如网络浏览器、移动应用、专用用户装置等。在一些实施方案中，通信硬件1006可以包括键盘、鼠标、触摸屏、触控感应区、软键、传声器、扬声器和/或其他输入/输出机构。通信硬件1006可以通过存储于处理器1002可访问的存储器(例如，存储器1004)上的软件指令(例如，应用软件和/或系统软件，如固件)利用处理器1002控制这些用户界面元件中的一个或多个的一种或多种功能。The communication hardware 1006 can be configured to provide output to the user, and in some embodiments receive an indication of user input. The communication hardware 1006 includes a user interface, such as a display, and may also include components for managing the use of the user interface, such as a web browser, a mobile application, a dedicated user device, etc. In some embodiments, the communication hardware 1006 may include a keyboard, a mouse, a touch screen, a touch sensing area, soft keys, a microphone, a speaker, and/or other input/output mechanisms. The communication hardware 1006 can utilize the processor 1002 to control one or more functions of one or more of these user interface elements through software instructions (e.g., application software and/or system software, such as firmware) stored in a memory (e.g., memory 1004) accessible to the processor 1002. 实施例Example 实施例1.Example 1. 进行体外受精的胚胎的植入前遗传学检测(PGT)以推断10对夫妇的110个胚胎中遗传的基因组序列并对12种常见病症的易感性进行建模。然后将准模拟胚胎与出生孩子的基因组序列进行比较，并且还用于通过计算多基因风险得分和推断对疾病风险具有高影响的罕见变体的遗传来预测常见疾病风险。Preimplantation genetic testing (PGT) of IVF embryos was performed to infer the inherited genomic sequence in 110 embryos from 10 couples and model susceptibility to 12 common conditions. The quasi-simulated embryos were then compared to the genomic sequence of the born children and also used to predict common disease risk by calculating polygenic risk scores and inferring the inheritance of rare variants with high impact on disease risk. 表5描述每对夫妇(各自分配相应案例标识符)的总结。通过比较来自模拟胚胎基因型的基因型与出生孩子的DNA基因型来确定每个案例的表现。如表5中所示，在第5天胚胎的多基因预测中使用的位点处获得范围为99.0％-99.4％的准确度，并且在第3天胚胎中获得97.2％-99.1％的准确度。案例1仅包括第3天胚胎，并且案例2包括第3天和第5天胚胎二者。所有其他案例都仅包括第5天胚胎。按照出生孩子中的基因型(杂合的或纯合的)细分统计学。由商业实验室(例如，Natera，原名Gene Security Network)在HumanCyto SNP-12BeadChip阵列上进行来自胚胎活检的PGT，范围为3至33个胚胎。在父母和出生孩子中作为高置信度基因型调用的基因组位置处评估覆盖率和准确度。Table 5 describes the summary of every couple (distributing corresponding case identifiers separately).Determine the performance of each case by comparing the genotype from the simulated embryo genotype and the DNA genotype of the child born.As shown in Table 5, the site used in the polygenic prediction of the 5th day embryo obtains an accuracy of 99.0%-99.4%, and obtains an accuracy of 97.2%-99.1% in the 3rd day embryo.Case 1 only includes the 3rd day embryo, and case 2 includes both the 3rd day and the 5th day embryo.All other cases only include the 5th day embryo.According to the subdivision statistics of the genotype (heterozygous or homozygous) in the child born.By commercial laboratory (for example, Natera, formerly known as Gene Security Network) on HumanCyto SNP-12BeadChip array, carry out PGT from embryo biopsy, ranging from 3 to 33 embryos.Assess coverage and accuracy at the genomic position called as high confidence genotype in parents and the child born. 另外，图15描绘来自模拟胚胎预测与出生孩子的PRS的关联。图15中的第一个图展示了预测的与测量的(出生孩子)原始PRS之间的密切关联，与预测的与测量的多基因风险之间的基因型一致率相符。图15中的第二个图描绘预测的与测量的源自原始PRS的z得分之间的关联(r2＝0.947)。将家庭5和9从该分析中排除，因为使用种群血统接近平均中心多基因风险无法解释混合。In addition, Figure 15 depicts the association of the predicted PRS from simulated embryos with the PRS of the born children. The first graph in Figure 15 demonstrates a strong association between the predicted and measured (born children) raw PRS, consistent with the genotype concordance rate between the predicted and measured polygenic risks. The second graph in Figure 15 depicts the association between the predicted and measured z-scores derived from the raw PRS ( r2 = 0.947). Families 5 and 9 were excluded from this analysis because admixture could not be explained using population ancestry close to the mean central polygenic risk. 在可获得新鲜血样的四个案例中，还对母亲样品和父亲样品二者进行合成长读段测序。对上文方案的修改包括另外使用TELL-Seq文库使用标准方案进行高分子量DNA和文库制备，但还原的可转座酶除外。In four cases where fresh blood samples were available, synthetic long-read sequencing was also performed on both maternal and paternal samples. Modifications to the above protocol included additional use of TELL-Seq libraries using standard protocols for high molecular weight DNA and library preparation, except for the reduced transposase. 实施例2.Example 2. 对于亲本基因型和出生孩子基因型的全基因组测序，靶向30x的平均深度。所有样品的实际平均覆盖率的范围在29x与111x之间。表6描绘用于每个案例的对应母亲、父亲和孩子测序的实际平均深度。百分比大于20x(％≥20x)指示被至少20个序列读段覆盖的基因组碱基的百分比。For whole genome sequencing of parental genotypes and birth child genotypes, an average depth of 30x was targeted. The actual average coverage of all samples ranged between 29x and 111x. Table 6 depicts the actual average depth of sequencing for the corresponding mother, father, and child for each case. Percentages greater than 20x (% ≥ 20x) indicate the percentage of genomic bases covered by at least 20 sequence reads. 根据Broad Institute的最佳实践流水线(GATK)进行WGS初级分析和次级分析，通过Sentieon软件来实施。用Burrow-Wheeler比对器(bwa)0.7.17版绘制人类参考基因组序列(GRCh37)。然后使用两个步骤进行每位父母和实际孩子的基因型分型。第一，对父母和出生孩子的联合变体调用使用Sentieon's GVCFtyper捕获序列并基于内部质量控制阈值过滤这些序列。联合变体调用允许同时考虑所有样品(例如，母系样品、父系样品和出生孩子样品)以在与从给定样品检测到的变体位置完全不同的多个变体位置产生基因型。内部质量控制阈值可以包括基础质量控制、中位深度(DP)、Fisher Strand(FS)以及按等位基因深度归一化的质量得分(QD)。这些内部质量控制阈值可以用于鉴定测序误差。特定地，内部质量控制阈值设置如下：BP大于或等于20，DP大于或等于8，FS小于30，并且QD大于4。第二，在对读段深度为至少8x的多基因模型具有特异性的位点处调用基因型。WGS primary analysis and secondary analysis were carried out according to the best practice pipeline (GATK) of Broad Institute, and implemented by Sentieon software. Human reference genome sequence (GRCh37) was drawn with Burrow-Wheeler aligner (bwa) version 0.7.17. Then two steps were used to carry out genotyping of each parent and actual child. First, the joint variants of parents and born children were called using Sentieon's GVCFtyper to capture sequences and filter these sequences based on internal quality control thresholds. Joint variants were called to allow all samples (e.g., maternal samples, paternal samples and born children samples) to be considered simultaneously to produce genotypes at multiple variant positions completely different from the variant positions detected from a given sample. Internal quality control thresholds can include basic quality control, median depth (DP), Fisher Strand (FS) and quality scores (QD) normalized by allele depth. These internal quality control thresholds can be used to identify sequencing errors. Specifically, internal quality control thresholds are set as follows: BP is greater than or equal to 20, DP is greater than or equal to 8, FS is less than 30, and QD is greater than 4. Second, genotypes were called at sites that were specific to the polygenic model with a read depth of at least 8x. 实施例3.Example 3. 通过以下方式对胚胎活检进行基因型分型：提取并扩增胚胎DNA，之后使用快速SNP微阵列方案(例如，在Illumina's HumanCytoSNP-12 BeadChip上)进行基因型分型。使用亲本支持模型将同胞胚胎和父母的SNP微阵列测量组合，以通过将来自HapMap数据库的重组频率与来自父母的SNP阵列测量和来自同胞胚胎的SNP阵列测量组合，来确定每位父母中杂合SNV的最大似然估计(MLE)阶段。所述组合可以产生亲本支持单体型。In the following manner, embryo biopsy is carried out to genotyping: extract and amplify embryonic DNA, use fast SNP microarray scheme (for example, on Illumina's HumanCytoSNP-12 BeadChip) to carry out genotyping afterwards.Use parent to support model that the SNP microarray measurement combination of sibling embryo and father and mother, to determine the maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) stage of heterozygous SNV in every parent by combining the recombination frequency from HapMap database with the SNP array measurement from parents and the SNP array measurement combination from sibling embryo.Described combination can produce parent and support haplotype. 第二，给定来自胚胎的SNP阵列测量和每位父母的MLE阶段，使用亲本支持模型的HMM确定最有可能留传到每个胚胎的亲本单体型。使用HMM的输出来告知减数分裂重组位点。Second, given the SNP array measurements from the embryo and the MLE stage of each parent, an HMM of the parental support model is used to determine the parental haplotype most likely to be inherited to each embryo. The output of the HMM is used to inform meiotic recombination sites. 实施例4.Example 4. 为了对每位父母中WGS导出的变体进行定相，使用另一种模拟模型来估计父母的单体型(例如，使用SHAPEIT4)。默认参数与另外的数据库数据(如可在UK10K插补队列+千人基因组3期(数据集EGAD00001000776)中获得)一起使用，其用作参考序列组和亲本支持单体型支架。该支架由约200,000个定相的变体组成，用于锚定使用参考序列组进行的定相。图11描绘获得定相的亲本基因型的过程。每个染色体可以独立地和平行地处理，并且之后组合所有染色体。排除并弃去多等位基因位点。为了获得并非由参考序列组表示的罕见变体的另外的表现，可以使用高分子量DNA的链读测序。In order to phase the variant derived by WGS in each parent, another simulation model is used to estimate the haplotype of parents (for example, using SHAPEIT4). Default parameters are used together with other database data (as can be obtained in UK10K interpolation queue+1000 genomes 3 phases (data set EGAD00001000776)), which is used as reference sequence group and parental support haplotype scaffold. This scaffold is composed of approximately 200,000 phased variants, for anchoring the phased using the reference sequence group. Figure 11 describes the process of obtaining the parental genotype of phased. Each chromosome can be processed independently and in parallel, and all chromosomes are combined afterwards. Exclude and discard multi-allelic sites. In order to obtain the other performance of the rare variant not represented by the reference sequence group, the chain of high molecular weight DNA can be used for sequencing. 特定地，使用TELL-Seq文库制备方法生成案例ID 5、8、9和10的链读测序数据。在使用上述相同过程(但增加维持每个读段的分子条形码信息)进行读段比对和变体调用后，使用另一种模型(例如，HapCut2模型)推断分子相。HapCut2模型是一种基于最大似然的工具，用于从DNA序列读段组装单体型。这些单体型的位置可以使用gnomad数据库以它们的全局等位基因频率来注释。Specifically, the chain read sequencing data of case ID 5, 8, 9 and 10 were generated using the TELL-Seq library preparation method. After read alignment and variant calling using the same process described above (but with the addition of maintaining the molecular barcode information for each read), another model (e.g., HapCut2 model) was used to infer molecular phases. The HapCut2 model is a maximum likelihood-based tool for assembling haplotypes from DNA sequence reads. The positions of these haplotypes can be annotated with their global allele frequencies using the gnomad database. 图16描绘源自家庭5的同胞胚胎的染色体3至8上留传的单体型的图。留传的单体型是从亲本支持输出的，并且形成微阵列位点处的PS胚胎基因型的基础。绿色和红色线条分别表示每个胚胎中母亲(MH)和父亲(FH)单体型的亲本单体型1和2。(具有一定不确定性的区域为黄色)。Figure 16 describes the figure of the haplotype that is passed on on the chromosome 3 to 8 of the sibling embryo that is derived from family 5.The haplotype that is passed on supports output from the parent, and forms the basis of the PS embryo genotype at the microarray site.Green and red lines represent the parental haplotype 1 and 2 of mother (MH) and father (FH) haplotype in each embryo respectively.(the region with certain uncertainty is yellow). 实施例5.Example 5. 为了预测每个同胞胚胎的全基因组序列，使用亲本支持模型的HMM将基因型与定相的亲本基因组组合，且增加跨染色体的单体型。通过比较所述单体型与同胞胚胎的基因型来获得父母留传到胚胎的单体型。这是在每个母系和父系染色体之间进行的过程。图11和图12更详细地描绘该过程。In order to predict the full genome sequence of each sibling embryo, use the HMM of parental support model that genotype is combined with the parental genome of phasing, and increase the haplotype across chromosome.Obtain the haplotype that parents are passed on to embryo by comparing the genotype of described haplotype and sibling embryo.This is the process of carrying out between each maternal and paternal chromosome.Figure 11 and Figure 12 describe this process in more detail. 可以过滤亲本和出生孩子的基因组中的低质量位点，以及来自每个家庭的序列数据中的多等位基因位点和对应于孟德尔误差(Mendelian error)的位点，以形成一组用于评估覆盖率和准确度的“高置信度位点”。将预测的胚胎基因型调用(源自重建)与通过出生孩子的DNA测序调用的变体相比较。Low-quality sites in the genomes of the parents and the born children, as well as multi-allelic sites and sites corresponding to Mendelian errors in the sequence data from each family, can be filtered to form a set of 'high-confidence sites' for assessing coverage and accuracy. The predicted embryonic genotype calls (derived from the reconstruction) are compared to the variants called by DNA sequencing of the born children. 将高置信度位点用来自gnomAD v2.1数据集的种群等位基因频率注释，所述数据集由源自七个种群的大约15,000个全基因组和125,000个外显子组构成：非洲人、拉丁美洲人、阿什肯纳兹犹太人、东亚人、欧洲人、南亚人和其他。认为等位基因频率<0.1％或不存在于gnomAD数据库中的变体是罕见的。High-confidence sites were annotated with population allele frequencies from the gnomAD v2.1 dataset, which consists of approximately 15,000 whole genomes and 125,000 exomes derived from seven populations: African, Latin American, Ashkenazi Jewish, East Asian, European, South Asian, and Other. Variants with an allele frequency <0.1% or not present in the gnomAD database were considered rare. 表7描绘如通过参考序列组且使用链读测序预测的位点的准确度。Table 7 depicts the accuracy of sites as predicted by the reference sequence set and using strand-read sequencing. 实施例6.Example 6. 对于每种模拟胚胎基因型使用类似的方法来计算多基因风险得分和血统主成分。在一些情况下，无法确定胚胎基因型预测，并且因此使用种群等位基因频率来调整PRS得分。如上所述将PRS得分居中并标准化，并且在给定PRS的情况下转化为疾病的优势比。具体而言，使用方程3，其中β是源自UK Biobank的PRS效应量(即，每个标准差的对数优势比)，并且PRS是居中且标准化的PRS。图14A-图14B展示了依照多基因风险得分十分位数的疾病优势比。For each simulated embryo genotype, a similar method is used to calculate polygenic risk scores and ancestry principal components. In some cases, it is impossible to determine the embryo genotype prediction, and therefore the population allele frequency is used to adjust the PRS score. As described above, the PRS score is centered and standardized, and in the case of a given PRS, it is converted into the odds ratio of the disease. Specifically, equation 3 is used, where β is the PRS effect size (that is, the logarithmic odds ratio of each standard deviation) derived from UK Biobank, and PRS is a centered and standardized PRS. Figure 14 A-Figure 14 B shows the disease odds ratio according to the polygenic risk score decile. 实施例7.Example 7. 使用关联接近通过以下方式生成模拟胚胎基因型：以父母双方的定相的基因组开始，在两个母亲或两个父亲染色体之间添加重组(以模拟配子中的减数分裂重组)，并且随机组合这些“虚拟配子”。将使用亲本支持模型导出的单体型与全基因组测序组合以生成定相的亲本基因组。使用减数分裂重组模型(例如，具有系谱(两位父母和一个孩子)和遗传图谱的ped-sim)来模拟用于重组的位点。使源自减数分裂重组模型的断裂点(例如，减数分裂重组位点)与定相的亲本基因组相交以生成“虚拟配子”。然后将来自母亲和父亲的虚拟配子组合以生成模拟胚胎基因型。如上所述在这些模拟胚胎基因型中进行PRS。为了生成风险得分的分布，对于每对夫妇将该过程重复500次。在无关联接近中，通过以下方式生成模拟胚胎基因型：从每位父母随机选择一个等位基因，并且关于相邻变体是否连锁不做假设。图13A-图13D使用无关联接近和关联接近二者描绘各种疾病的风险得分的分布。Use association approach to generate simulated embryo genotype in the following manner: start with the phased genome of both parents, add recombination (to simulate the meiotic recombination in gametes) between two mothers or two fathers chromosomes, and randomly combine these 'virtual gametes'. The haplotype derived using the parental support model is combined with whole genome sequencing to generate the phased parental genome. Use meiotic recombination model (for example, ped-sim with pedigree (two parents and one child) and genetic map) to simulate the site for recombination. Make the breakpoint (for example, meiotic recombination site) derived from the meiotic recombination model intersect with the phased parental genome to generate 'virtual gametes'. Then combine the virtual gametes from mother and father to generate simulated embryo genotype. Carry out PRS in these simulated embryo genotypes as described above. In order to generate the distribution of risk scores, this process is repeated 500 times for each couple. In unrelated approach, simulated embryo genotype is generated in the following manner: select one allele randomly from each parent, and do not make assumptions about whether adjacent variants are linked. 13A-13D depict the distribution of risk scores for various diseases using both unassociated proximity and associated proximity. 此外，如表8中所描绘，对模拟胚胎基因型进行的针对非整倍性(PGT-A)的临床PGT揭示，110个胚胎中的69是整倍体，并且110个胚胎中的41个是非整倍体。通过如上所述进行父母双方的高覆盖率基因组测序和同胞胚胎的阵列测量来实现胚胎的全基因组重建。In addition, clinical PGT for aneuploidy (PGT-A) performed on simulated embryo genotypes revealed that 69 of 110 embryos were euploid and 41 of 110 embryos were aneuploid as depicted in Table 8. Whole genome reconstruction of embryos was achieved by high coverage genome sequencing of both parents and array measurements of sibling embryos as described above. 结论in conclusion 本发明所属领域的技术人员将想到本文所述的本发明的许多修改和其他实施方案，它们具有前述说明和相关附图中呈现的教导的益处。因此，应理解，本发明并不限于所公开的具体实施方案，并且修改和其他实施方案意图包括在所附权利要求书的范围内。此外，尽管前述说明和相关图示在要素和/或功能的某些示例组合的背景中描述示例实施方案，但应了解，要素和/或功能的不同组合可以在不背离所附权利要求书的范围的情况下由替代性实施方案来提供。就此而言，例如，还考虑要素和/或功能的与上文明确描述的那些不同的组合，如可以在一些所附权利要求中陈述。尽管本文中采用特定术语，但它们仅以通用描述性含义使用，不用于限制性目的。Those skilled in the art to which the present invention belongs will think of many modifications and other embodiments of the present invention described herein, which have the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and the related drawings. Therefore, it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments disclosed, and modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included in the scope of the appended claims. In addition, although the foregoing description and the related diagrams describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and/or functions, it should be understood that different combinations of elements and/or functions can be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard, for example, it is also considered that the combination of elements and/or functions that is different from those clearly described above, such as can be stated in some appended claims. Although specific terms are used herein, they are only used in a general descriptive sense and are not used for restrictive purposes. 说明书中提到的所有专利和出版物都表明了本发明所属领域的普通技术人员的水平。所有专利和出版物都通过引用并入本文，并入程度如同确切且单独地指示每个单独出版物都通过引用并入一般。All patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains. All patents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

### Claims

Claims (21) 1. A method for determining probability of disease distribution associated with a quasi-embryo, the method comprising: generating a phased set of maternal chromosomes and a phased set of paternal chromosomes; determining one or more meiotic recombination sites of interest; Generating one or more simulated embryo genotypes based on the phased set of maternal chromosomes, the phased set of paternal chromosomes, and the one or more meiotic recombination sites of interest; Applying at least one polygenic risk model to the one or more simulated embryo genotypes to generate a polygenic risk score set, wherein the polygenic risk score set comprises a polygenic risk score for each of the one or more simulated embryo genotypes; and Determining a disease distribution probability for one or more diseases of the quasi-embryo based on the set of polygenic risk scores. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising converting each polygenic risk score to a disease relative risk based on the polygenic risk score. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein translating each polygenic risk score into the disease relative risk further comprises: Calculating a odds ratio of the polygenic risk scores using an effector model; and The relative risk of the disease is determined based on the odds ratio and the prevalence of the disease associated with the particular disease. 4. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising determining one or more risk thresholds for each disease. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising determining a percentage of disease distribution probability for a disease that meets the one or more risk thresholds corresponding to the disease. 6. The method of any one of claims 1-5, further comprising normalizing each of the polygenic risk scores based on population data to produce a normalized polygenic risk score set, wherein determining the disease distribution probability is based on the normalized polygenic risk score set. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the population data comprises lineage-specific population data. 8. The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, further comprising: Generating maternal gametes using a meiotic recombination model based on the phased set of maternal chromosomes and the one or more meiotic recombination sites of interest; Generating a male gamete using the meiotic recombination model based on the phased set of male gametes and the one or more meiotic recombination sites of interest; and Generating the one or more simulated embryo genotypes based on the paternal gametes and the maternal gametes. 9. The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, the method further comprising: Obtaining a maternal genome from a maternal subject and a paternal genome from a paternal subject; Phasing the maternal genome to generate the phased maternal genome; and Phasing the paternal genome to generate the phased paternal genome. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein phasing of the maternal or paternal genome is performed using one or more of a population-based method or a molecular-based method. 11. The method of any one of claims 9 or 10, the method further comprising: performing whole genome sequencing on a biological sample obtained from the maternal subject to determine the maternal genome; and Whole genome sequencing of a biological sample obtained from the paternal subject to determine the paternal genome. 12. The method of any one of claims 9 to 11, the method further comprising: determining sibling genome information; Generating the phased maternal genome based on the maternal genome and the sibling genome information; and Generating the phased set of paternal chromosomes based on the paternal genome and the sibling genome information. 13. The method of any one of claims 9 to 12, the method further comprising: Obtaining population genotype data comprising genotypes of individuals of a plurality of unrelated individuals; generating the phased maternal genome based on the maternal genome and the population genotype data; and Generating the phased set of paternal chromosomes based on the paternal genome and the population genotype data. 14. The method of any one of claims 9 to 13, the method further comprising: Determining sibling genome information; and The one or more meiotic recombination sites of interest are determined based on the sibling genome, the maternal genome and the paternal genome. 15. The method of any one of claims 12 or 14, wherein: The sibling genome information is determined using at least one of array measurement, second generation sequencing, or whole genome sequencing, and the sibling genome is obtained from at least one of a sibling embryo, a complete biological sibling, or a semi-biological sibling. 16. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein a parent haplotype of chromosome length is obtained throughout the genome for each simulated embryo. 17. The method of any one of claims 1 to 16, the method further comprising: Generating additional In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) cycle recommendations based on disease distribution probabilities of one or more diseases of the quasi-embryo; and And outputting the IVF period suggestion. 18. The method of claim 17, the method further comprising: determining a risk of occurrence of a disease based on the probability of disease distribution, wherein the IVF period recommendation is based on the risk of occurrence of a disease. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the additional IVF period recommendation indicates whether to perform another round of IVF. 20. An apparatus for determining a probability of a disease distribution associated with a quasi-embryo, the apparatus comprising a processor and a memory storing software instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the apparatus to perform the steps recited in any one of claims 1 to 19. 21. A computer program product for determining a probability of a disease distribution associated with a quasi-embryo, the computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing software instructions which, when executed by an apparatus, cause the apparatus to perform the steps recited in any one of claims 1 to 19.
