## Patent Reference

- Title: Method for detecting patients with systematically under-estimated tumor mutational burden who may benefit from immunotherapy
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/WO2024215498A1/en

### Abstract

Abstract Methods for more accurately determining tumor mutational burden (TMB) based on sequence read data for a sample from a subject are described. The methods may comprise, for example, receiving sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for a sample from a subject; providing the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and outputting a classification of the TMB status of the sample.

### Description

Description METHOD FOR DETECTING PATIENTS WITH SYSTEMATICALLY UNDERESTIMATED TUMOR MUTATIONAL BURDEN WHO MAY BENEFIT FROM IMMUNOTHERAPY CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION [0001] This application claims the priority benefit of United States Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 63/458,809, filed April 12, 2023, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. FIELD OF THE INVENTION [0002] The present disclosure relates generally to methods and systems for analyzing genomic profiling data, and more specifically to methods and systems for: (i) identifying subjects for whom tumor mutational burden is systematically underestimated using genomic profiling data, and/or (ii) for making more accurate determinations of TMB in those cases. BACKGROUND [0003] Tumor mutational burden (TMB) is a complex biomarker that quantifies the number of mutations in a sample from a subject (e.g., the number of non-synonymous somatic mutations per megabase in coding regions of the genome) that may contribute to the immunogenicity of a tumor. TMB is therefore considered a predictor of a subject’s (e.g., a cancer patient’s) response to immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICPI) therapy. [0004] Determination of tumor mutational burden based on DNA sequencing data for a sample from a subject (e.g., a patient) often requires the imposition of a variant allele fraction (VAF) threshold to exclude subclonal or artif actual variants from the calculation of TMB. These VAF thresholds can be considered to impose a tumor purity limit of detection on the accurate determination of TMB. Thus, when tumor purity is low, the application of the VAF threshold for inclusion of detected variants in the TMB calculation can cause some clonal variants to be excluded, thereby causing underestimation of the sample’s TMB. Underestimation of the actual TMB for the sample may, in turn, lead to erroneous predictions of a subject’s response to ICPI therapy. Thus, improved methods for determining tumor mutational burden are required to improve the predictive accuracy of this biomarker and associated healthcare outcomes. BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION [0005] Disclosed herein are methods and systems for identifying samples from subjects for which a determination of TMB using conventional approaches is likely to result in an underestimate, and for more accurately determining TMB based on DNA sequencing data for a sample from a subject, particularly for those subjects for whom TMB is systematically underestimated using conventional approaches. The disclosed methods utilizes a machine learning (ML)-based approach to identify samples with high risk for missed tumor mutational burden-high (TMB-H) status. The machine learning model is trained to recognize patterns of short variants detected based on sequence read data (e.g., single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and small insertions/deletions) that are recurrently associated with TMB-H status when tumor content is adequate for confident TMB assessment. The trained model can then be applied to variants detected in samples with low tumor content and apparently low TMB to highlight cases that are at risk for a false negative determination of TMB-H status. [0006] Disclosed herein are methods method comprising: providing a plurality of nucleic acid molecules obtained from a sample from a subject; ligating one or more adapters onto one or more nucleic acid molecules from the plurality of nucleic acid molecules; amplifying the one or more ligated nucleic acid molecules from the plurality of nucleic acid molecules; capturing amplified nucleic acid molecules from the amplified nucleic acid molecules; sequencing, by a sequencer, the captured nucleic acid molecules to obtain a plurality of sequence reads that represent the captured nucleic acid molecules; receiving, at one or more processors, sequence read data for the plurality of sequence reads; receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, based on the sequence read data; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. [0007] In some embodiments, the variant data comprises short variant data. In some embodiments, the variant data comprises genomic rearrangement data. In some embodiments, the sample data further comprises mutational signature data. In some embodiments, the sample data further comprises copy number alteration (CNA) data. In some embodiments, the copy number alteration (CNA) data comprises copy number signature data. In some embodiments, the sample data further comprises digital histopathology data. In some embodiments, the machine learning model comprises a supervised machine learning model. [0008] In some embodiments, the subject is suspected of having or is determined to have cancer. In some embodiments, the cancer is a B cell cancer (multiple myeloma), a melanoma, breast cancer, lung cancer, bronchus cancer, colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, pancreatic cancer, stomach cancer, ovarian cancer, urinary bladder cancer, brain cancer, central nervous system cancer, peripheral nervous system cancer, esophageal cancer, cervical cancer, uterine cancer, endometrial cancer, cancer of an oral cavity, cancer of a pharynx, liver cancer, kidney cancer, testicular cancer, biliary tract cancer, small bowel cancer, appendix cancer, salivary gland cancer, thyroid gland cancer, adrenal gland cancer, osteosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, a cancer of hematological tissue, an adenocarcinoma, an inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), colon cancer, multiple myeloma (MM), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), myeloproliferative disorder (MPD), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myelocytic leukemia (AML), chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), polycythemia Vera, Hodgkin lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), soft- tissue sarcoma, fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, chordoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma, lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, bladder carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, meningioma, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, thyroid cancer, gastric cancer, head and neck cancer, small cell cancer, essential thrombocythemia, agnogenic myeloid metaplasia, hypereosinophilic syndrome, systemic mastocytosis, familiar hypereosinophilia, chronic eosinophilic leukemia, neuroendocrine cancers, or a carcinoid tumor. [0009] In some embodiments, the cancer comprises acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Philadelphia chromosome positive), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (precursor B-cell), acute myeloid leukemia (FLT3+), acute myeloid leukemia (with an IDH2 mutation), anaplastic large cell lymphoma, basal cell carcinoma, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, bladder cancer, breast cancer (HER2 overexpressed/amplified), breast cancer (HER2+), breast cancer (HR+, HER2-), cervical cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (with 17p deletion), chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia (Philadelphia chromosome positive), classical Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, colorectal cancer (dMMR/MSI-H), colorectal cancer (KRAS wild type), cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome, a cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, fallopian tube cancer, a follicular B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a follicular lymphoma, gastric cancer, gastric cancer (HER2+), gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma, a gastrointestinal stromal tumor, a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (KIT+), a giant cell tumor of the bone, a glioblastoma, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, a head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, a hepatocellular carcinoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, lupus erythematosus, a mantle cell lymphoma, medullary thyroid cancer, melanoma, a melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation, a melanoma with a BRAF V600E or V600K mutation, Merkel cell carcinoma, multicentric Castleman's disease, multiple hematologic malignancies including Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL and CML, multiple myeloma, myelofibrosis, a non-Hodgkin’ s lymphoma, a nonresectable subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with tuberous sclerosis, a non-small cell lung cancer, a non-small cell lung cancer (ALK+), a non-small cell lung cancer (PD-L1+), a non-small cell lung cancer (with ALK fusion or ROS1 gene alteration), a non-small cell lung cancer (with BRAF V600E mutation), a non-small cell lung cancer (with an EGFR exon 19 deletion or exon 21 substitution (L858R) mutations), a non- small cell lung cancer (with an EGFR T790M mutation), ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer (with a BRCA mutation), pancreatic cancer, a pancreatic, gastrointestinal, or lung origin neuroendocrine tumor, a pediatric neuroblastoma, a peripheral T-cell lymphoma, peritoneal cancer, prostate cancer, a renal cell carcinoma, rheumatoid arthritis, a small lymphocytic lymphoma, a soft tissue sarcoma, a solid tumor (MSI-H/dMMR), a squamous cell cancer of the head and neck, a squamous non- small cell lung cancer, thyroid cancer, a thyroid carcinoma, urothelial cancer, a urothelial carcinoma, or Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. [0010] In some embodiments, the method further comprises treating the subject with an anticancer therapy. In some embodiments, the anti-cancer therapy comprises a targeted anti-cancer therapy. In some embodiments, the targeted anti-cancer therapy comprises abemaciclib (Verzenio), abiraterone acetate (Zytiga), acalabrutinib (Calquence), ado-trastuzumab emtansine (Kadcyla), afatinib dimaleate (Gilotrif), aldesleukin (Proleukin), alectinib (Alecensa), alemtuzumab (Campath), alitretinoin (Panretin), alpelisib (Piqray), amivantamab-vmjw (Rybrevant), anastrozole (Arimidex), apalutamide (Erleada), asciminib hydrochloride (Scemblix), atezolizumab (Tecentriq), avapritinib (Ayvakit), avelumab (Bavencio), axicabtagene ciloleucel (Yescarta), axitinib (Inlyta), belantamab mafodotin-blmf (Blenrep), belimumab (Benlysta), belinostat (Beleodaq), belzutifan (Welireg), bevacizumab (Avastin), bexarotene (Targretin), binimetinib (Mektovi), blinatumomab (Blincyto), bortezomib (Velcade), bosutinib (Bosulif), brentuximab vedotin (Adcetris), brexucabtagene autoleucel (Tecartus), brigatinib (Alunbrig), cabazitaxel (Jevtana), cabozantinib (Cabometyx), cabozantinib (Cabometyx, Cometriq), canakinumab (Haris), capmatinib hydrochloride (Tabrecta), carfilzomib (Kyprolis), cemiplimab-rwlc (Libtayo), ceritinib (LDK378/Zykadia), cetuximab (Erbitux), cobimetinib (Cotellic), copanlisib hydrochloride (Aliqopa), crizotinib (Xalkori), dabrafenib (Tafinlar), dacomitinib (Vizimpro), daratumumab (Darzalex), daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj (Darzalex Faspro), darolutamide (Nubeqa), dasatinib (Sprycel), denileukin diftitox (Ontak), denosumab (Xgeva), dinutuximab (Unituxin), dostarlimab-gxly (Jemperli), durvalumab (Imfinzi), duvelisib (Copiktra), elotuzumab (Empliciti), enasidenib mesylate (Idhifa), encorafenib (Braftovi), enfortumab vedotin-ejfv (Padcev), entrectinib (Rozlytrek), enzalutamide (Xtandi), erdafitinib (Balversa), erlotinib (Tarceva), everolimus (Afinitor), exemestane (Aromasin), fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki (Enhertu), fedratinib hydrochloride (Inrebic), fulvestrant (Faslodex), gefitinib (Iressa), gemtuzumab ozogamicin (Mylotarg), gilteritinib (Xospata), glasdegib maleate (Daurismo), hyaluronidase-zzxf (Phesgo), ibrutinib (Imbruvica), ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin), idecabtagene vicleucel (Abecma), idelalisib (Zydelig), imatinib mesylate (Gleevec), infigratinib phosphate (Truseltiq), inotuzumab ozogamicin (Besponsa), iobenguane 1131 (Azedra), ipilimumab (Yervoy), isatuximab-irfc (Sarclisa), ivosidenib (Tibsovo), ixazomib citrate (Ninlaro), lanreotide acetate (Somatuline Depot), lapatinib (Tykerb), larotrectinib sulfate (Vitrakvi), lenvatinib mesylate (Lenvima), letrozole (Femara), lisocabtagene maraleucel (Breyanzi), loncastuximab tesirine-lpyl (Zynlonta), lorlatinib (Lorbrena), lutetium Lu 177-dotatate (Lutathera), margetuximab-cmkb (Margenza), midostaurin (Rydapt), mobocertinib succinate (Exkivity), mogamulizumab-kpkc (Poteligeo), moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk (Lumoxiti), naxitamab-gqgk (Danyelza), necitumumab (Portrazza), neratinib maleate (Nerlynx), nilotinib (Tasigna), niraparib tosylate monohydrate (Zejula), nivolumab (Opdivo), obinutuzumab (Gazyva), ofatumumab (Arzerra), olaparib (Lynparza), olaratumab (Lartruvo), osimertinib (Tagrisso), palbociclib (Ibrance), panitumumab (Vectibix), panobinostat (Farydak), pazopanib (Votrient), pembrolizumab (Keytruda), pemigatinib (Pemazyre), pertuzumab (Perjeta), pexidartinib hydrochloride (Turalio), polatuzumab vedotin-piiq (Polivy), ponatinib hydrochloride (Iclusig), pralatrexate (Folotyn), pralsetinib (Gavreto), radium 223 dichloride (Xofigo), ramucirumab (Cyramza), regorafenib (Stivarga), ribociclib (Kisqali), ripretinib (Qinlock), rituximab (Rituxan), rituximab and hyaluronidase human (Rituxan Hycela), romidepsin (Istodax), rucaparib camsylate (Rubraca), ruxolitinib phosphate (Jakafi), sacituzumab govitecan-hziy (Trodelvy), seliciclib, selinexor (Xpovio), selpercatinib (Retevmo), selumetinib sulfate (Koselugo), siltuximab (Sylvant), sipuleucel-T (Provenge), sirolimus protein-bound particles (Fyarro), sonidegib (Odomzo), sorafenib (Nexavar), sotorasib (Lumakras), sunitinib (Sutent), tafasitamab-cxix (Monjuvi), tagraxofusp-erzs (Elzonris), talazoparib tosylate (Talzenna), tamoxifen (Nolvadex), tazemetostat hydrobromide (Tazverik), tebentafusp-tebn (Kimmtrak), temsirolimus (Torisel), tepotinib hydrochloride (Tepmetko), tisagenlecleucel (Kymriah), tisotumab vedotin-tftv (Tivdak), tocilizumab (Actemra), tofacitinib (Xeljanz), tositumomab (Bexxar), trametinib (Mekinist), trastuzumab (Herceptin), tretinoin (Vesanoid), tivozanib hydrochloride (Fotivda), toremifene (Fareston), tucatinib (Tukysa), umbralisib tosylate (Ukoniq), vandetanib (Caprelsa), vemurafenib (Zelboraf), venetoclax (Venclexta), vismodegib (Erivedge), vorinostat (Zolinza), zanubrutinib (Brukinsa), ziv-aflibercept (Zaltrap), or any combination thereof. [0011] In some embodiments, the method further comprises obtaining the sample from the subject. In some embodiments, the sample comprises a tissue biopsy sample, a liquid biopsy sample, or a normal control. In some embodiments, the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises blood, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, sputum, stool, urine, or saliva. In some embodiments, the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises circulating tumor cells (CTCs). In some embodiments, the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises cell-free DNA (cfDNA), circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), or any combination thereof. [0012] In some embodiments, the plurality of nucleic acid molecules comprises a mixture of tumor nucleic acid molecules and non-tumor nucleic acid molecules. In some embodiments, the tumor nucleic acid molecules are derived from a tumor portion of a heterogeneous tissue biopsy sample, and the non-tumor nucleic acid molecules are derived from a normal portion of the heterogeneous tissue biopsy sample. In some embodiments, the sample comprises a liquid biopsy sample, and the tumor nucleic acid molecules are derived from a circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) fraction of the liquid biopsy sample, and the non-tumor nucleic acid molecules are derived from a non-tumor, cell-free DNA (cfDNA) fraction of the liquid biopsy sample. [0013] In some embodiments, the one or more adapters comprise amplification primers, flow cell adaptor sequences, substrate adapter sequences, or sample index sequences. In some embodiments, the captured nucleic acid molecules are captured from the amplified nucleic acid molecules by hybridization to one or more bait molecules. In some embodiments, the one or more bait molecules comprise one or more nucleic acid molecules, each comprising a region that is complementary to a region of a captured nucleic acid molecule. In some embodiments, amplifying nucleic acid molecules comprises performing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification technique, a non-PCR amplification technique, or an isothermal amplification technique. [0014] In some embodiments, the sequencing comprises use of a massively parallel sequencing (MPS) technique, whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing, targeted sequencing, direct sequencing, or Sanger sequencing technique. In some embodiments, the sequencing comprises massively parallel sequencing, and the massively parallel sequencing technique comprises next generation sequencing (NGS). In some embodiments, the sequencer comprises a next generation sequencer. [0015] In some embodiments, one or more of the plurality of sequencing reads overlap one or more gene loci within one or more subgenomic intervals in the sample. In some embodiments, the one or more gene loci comprises between 10 and 20 loci, between 10 and 40 loci, between 10 and 60 loci, between 10 and 80 loci, between 10 and 100 loci, between 10 and 150 loci, between 10 and 200 loci, between 10 and 250 loci, between 10 and 300 loci, between 10 and 350 loci, between 10 and 400 loci, between 10 and 450 loci, between 10 and 500 loci, between 20 and 40 loci, between 20 and 60 loci, between 20 and 80 loci, between 20 and 100 loci, between 20 and 150 loci, between 20 and 200 loci, between 20 and 250 loci, between 20 and 300 loci, between 20 and 350 loci, between 20 and 400 loci, between 20 and 500 loci, between 40 and 60 loci, between 40 and 80 loci, between 40 and 100 loci, between 40 and 150 loci, between 40 and 200 loci, between 40 and 250 loci, between 40 and 300 loci, between 40 and 350 loci, between 40 and 400 loci, between 40 and 500 loci, between 60 and 80 loci, between 60 and 100 loci, between 60 and 150 loci, between 60 and 200 loci, between 60 and 250 loci, between 60 and 300 loci, between 60 and 350 loci, between 60 and 400 loci, between 60 and 500 loci, between 80 and 100 loci, between 80 and 150 loci, between 80 and 200 loci, between 80 and 250 loci, between 80 and 300 loci, between 80 and 350 loci, between 80 and 400 loci, between 80 and 500 loci, between 100 and 150 loci, between 100 and 200 loci, between 100 and 250 loci, between 100 and 300 loci, between 100 and 350 loci, between 100 and 400 loci, between 100 and 500 loci, between 150 and 200 loci, between 150 and 250 loci, between 150 and 300 loci, between 150 and 350 loci, between 150 and 400 loci, between 150 and 500 loci, between 200 and 250 loci, between 200 and 300 loci, between 200 and 350 loci, between 200 and 400 loci, between 200 and 500 loci, between 250 and 300 loci, between 250 and 350 loci, between 250 and 400 loci, between 250 and 500 loci, between 300 and 350 loci, between 300 and 400 loci, between 300 and 500 loci, between 350 and 400 loci, between 350 and 500 loci, or between 400 and 500 loci. [0016] In some embodiments, the one or more gene loci comprise ABL1, ACVR1B, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, ALOX12B, AMER1, APC, AR, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A, ASXL1, ATM, ATR, ATRX, AURKA, AURKB, AXIN1, AXL, BAP1, BARD1, BCL2, BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BCOR, BCORL1, BCR, BRAF, BRCA1, BRCA2, BRD4, BRIP1, BTG1, BTG2, BTK, CALR, CARD11, CASP8, CBFB, CBL, CCND1, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CD22, CD274, CD70, CD74, CD79A, CD79B, CDC73, CDH1, CDK12, CDK4, CDK6, CDK8, CDKN1A, CDKN1B, CDKN2A, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CEBPA, CHEK1, CHEK2, CIC, CREBBP, CRKL, CSF1R, CSF3R, CTCF, CTNNA1, CTNNB1, CUL3, CUL4A, CXCR4, CYP17A1, DAXX, DDR1, DDR2, DIS3, DNMT3A, DOT1L, EED, EGFR, EMSY (Cllorf30), EP300, EPHA3, EPHB1, EPHB4, ERBB2, ERBB3, ERBB4, ERCC4, ERG, ERRFI1, ESRI, ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, EZR, FAM46C, FANCA, FANCC, FANCG, FANCL, FAS, FBXW7, FGF10, FGF12, FGF14, FGF19, FGF23, FGF3, FGF4, FGF6, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, FH, FLCN, FLT1, FLT3, FOXL2, FUBP1, GABRA6, GATA3, GATA4, GATA6, GID4 (C17orf39), GNA11, GNA13, GNAQ, GNAS, GRM3, GSK3B, H3F3A, HDAC1, HGF, HNF1A, HRAS, HSD3B1, ID3, IDH1, IDH2, IGF1R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INPP4B, IRF2, IRF4, IRS2, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, JUN, KDM5A, KDM5C, KDM6A, KDR, KEAP1, KEL, KIT, KLHL6, KMT2A (MLL), KMT2D (MLL2), KRAS, LTK, LYN, MAF, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MAP2K4, MAP3K1, MAP3K13, MAPK1, MCL1, MDM2, MDM4, MED12, MEF2B, MEN1, MERTK, MET, MITF, MKNK1, MLH1, MPL, MRE11A, MSH2, MSH3, MSH6, MST1R, MTAP, MTOR, MUTYH, MYB, MYC, MYCL, MYCN, MYD88, NBN, NF1, NF2, NFE2L2, NFKBIA, NKX2-1, NOTCH1, NOTCH2, NOTCH3, NPM1, NRAS, NT5C2, NTRK1, NTRK2, NTRK3, NUTM1, P2RY8, PALB2, PARK2, PARP1, PARP2, PARP3, PAX5, PBRM1, PDCD1, PDCD1LG2, PDGFRA, PDGFRB, PDK1, PIK3C2B, PIK3C2G, PIK3CA, PIK3CB, PIK3R1, PIM1, PMS2, POLDI, POLE, PPARG, PPP2R1A, PPP2R2A, PRDM1, PRKAR1A, PRKCI, PTCHI, PTEN, PTPN11, PTPRO, QKI, RAC1, RAD21, RAD51, RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, RAD52, RAD54L, RAFI, RARA, RBI, RBM10, REL, RET, RICTOR, RNF43, ROS1, RPTOR, RSPO2, SDC4, SDHA, SDHB, SDHC, SDHD, SETD2, SF3B1, SGK1, SLC34A2, SMAD2, SMAD4, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SMO, SNCAIP, SOCS1, SOX2, SOX9, SPEN, SPOP, SRC, STAG2, STAT3, STK11, SUFU, SYK, TBX3, TEK, TERC, TERT, TET2, TGFBR2, TIPARP, TMPRSS2, TNFAIP3, TNFRSF14, TP53, TSC1, TSC2, TYRO3, U2AF1, VEGFA, VHL, WHSCI, WHSC1L1, WT1, XPO1, XRCC2, ZNF217, ZNF703, or any combination thereof. [0017] In some embodiments, the one or more gene loci comprise ABL, ALK, ALL, B4GALNT1, BAFF, BCL2, BRAF, BRCA, BTK, CD19, CD20, CD3, CD30, CD319, CD38, CD52, CDK4, CDK6, CML, CRACC, CS1, CTLA-4, dMMR, EGFR, ERBB1, ERBB2, FGFR1- 3, FLT3, GD2, HDAC, HER1, HER2, HR, IDH2, IL-ip, IL-6, IL-6R, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, KIT, KRAS, MEK, MET, MSLH, mTOR, PARP, PD-1, PDGFR, PDGFRa, PDGFRp, PD-L1, PI3K5, PIGF, PTCH, RAF, RANKL, RET, ROS1, SLAMF7, VEGF, VEGFA, VEGFB, or any combination thereof. [0018] In some embodiments, the method further comprises generating, by the one or more processors, a report comprising the prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. In some embodiments, the method further comprises transmitting the report to a healthcare provider. In some embodiments, the report is transmitted via a computer network or a peer-to-peer connection. [0019] Disclosed herein are methods for identifying a sample from a subject for which tumor mutational burden (TMB) is likely to be underestimated, the methods comprising: receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. [0020] Disclosed herein are methods for classifying a sample from a subject according to tumor mutational burden (TMB) status, the method comprising: receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a classification of the TMB status of the sample. [0021] In some embodiments, the classification of the TMB status comprises classification of the sample as being TMB-High or TMB-Low. In some embodiments, the classification of the TMB status comprises classification of the sample as being TMB-High, TMB-Low, or TMB- Indeterminate. [0022] Also disclosed herein are methods for determining a tumor mutational burden (TMB) status for a sample from a subject, the methods comprising: receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a determination of the TMB of the sample. [0023] In some embodiments, the determination of TMB further comprises a determination of a 95% confidence interval for the TMB of the sample. In some embodiments, the variant data comprises short variant data. In some embodiments, the variant data comprises genomic rearrangement data. In some embodiments, the sample data further comprises mutational signature data. In some embodiments, the sample data further comprises copy number alteration (CNA) data. In some embodiments, the copy number alteration (CNA) data comprises copy number signature data. In some embodiments, the sample data further comprises digital histopathology data. [0024] In any of the embodiments disclosed herein, the machine learning model may comprise a supervised machine learning model. In some embodiments, the machine learning model comprises a random forest model, a logistic regression model, a support vector machine (SVM), an XGBoost model, or a neural network. In some embodiments, the machine learning model is trained using at least one training data set comprising sample data for a set of training samples from a cohort of cancer patients. In some embodiments, the training data set comprises sample data for training samples having a tumor purity of at least 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, or 30%. [0025] In some embodiments, the method further comprises processing sequence read data for a plurality of sequence reads obtained from the sample from the subject to generate the sample data. [0026] In some embodiments, the sample comprises a tissue biopsy sample, a liquid biopsy sample, or a normal control. In some embodiments, the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises blood, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, sputum, stool, urine, or saliva. In some embodiments, the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises circulating tumor cells (CTCs). In some embodiments, the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises cell-free DNA (cfDNA), circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), or any combination thereof. [0027] In some embodiments, the subject has been diagnosed cancer. In some embodiments, the TMB status or TMB determined for the sample is used to predict the subject’s response to an anti-cancer therapy. In some embodiments, the anti-cancer therapy comprises an immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICPI) therapy. [0028] Also disclosed herein are systems comprising: one or more processors; and a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and output a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. [0029] Also disclosed herein are systems comprising: one or more processors; and a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and output a classification of the TMB status of the sample. [0030] Also disclosed herein are systems comprising: one or more processors; and a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and output a determination of the TMB of the sample. [0031] Disclosed herein are non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of a system, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and output a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. [0032] Disclosed herein are non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of a system, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and output a classification of the TMB status of the sample. [0033] Disclosed herein are non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of a system, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and output a determination of the TMB of the sample. [0034] It should be appreciated that all combinations of the foregoing concepts and additional concepts discussed in greater detail below (provided such concepts are not mutually inconsistent) are contemplated as being part of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein. In particular, all combinations of claimed subject matter appearing at the end of this disclosure are contemplated as being part of the inventive subject matter disclosed herein. INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE [0035] All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety. In the event of a conflict between a term herein and a term in an incorporated reference, the term herein controls. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS [0036] Various aspects of the disclosed methods, devices, and systems are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. A better understanding of the features and advantages of the disclosed methods, devices, and systems will be obtained by reference to the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments and the accompanying drawings, of which: [0037] FIG. 1 provides a non-limiting schematic illustration of the training, validation, and clinical application of a machine learning model to provide a more accurate determination of TMB for samples for which there is a high probability of underestimating TMB by conventional methods. [0038] FIG. 2 depicts an exemplary computing device or system in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. [0039] FIG. 3 depicts an exemplary computer system or computer network, in accordance with some instances of the systems described herein. [0040] FIGS. 4A-E provide non-limiting examples of data from a study of a cohort of cancer patients for whom POLE variants were identified based on sequence read data. FIG. 4A: plot of the number of patient samples containing a mutation at the specified position in the POLE gene. FIG. 4B: plot of the number of distinct POLE mutation alleles at the specified position in the POLE gene. FIG. 4C: plot of median tumor mutational burden (TMB) of samples exhibiting a POLE mutation at the specified position in the POLE gene. FIG. 4D: provides a breakdown of the classification of POLE variants. FIG. 4E: illustrates the mapping of the 23 unique pathogenic variants identified in this study to the exonuclease domain of the POLE gene. [0041] FIG. 5 provides a non-limiting example of a plot of pathogenic POLE prevalence (bars) and any POLE prevalence (circles) versus cancer type. [0042] FIG. 6 provides a non-limiting example of a violin plot of TMB versus mutational signature. [0043] FIG. 7 provides a non-limiting example of TMB for samples with pathogenic or non- pathogenic POLE variants. [0044] FIG. 8 provides a non-limiting example of a violin plot of TMB versus cancer type. [0045] FIG. 9A provides non-limiting examples of a violin plot of TMB for POLE exonuclease domain variants. [0046] FIG. 9B provides a non-limiting example of a box plot of TMB versus pathogenic POLE VAF. [0047] FIG. 10 provides a non-limiting example of a plot of the percentage of cases that exhibited both a pathogenic POLE variant and micro satellite instability (MSI)-high status for different cancer types. [0048] FIG. 11 provides a non-limiting example of a violin plot of TMB versus different combinations of POLE variants and micro satellite instability (MSI) status. [0049] FIG. 12 provides a non-limiting example of a plot of p value versus odds ratio (OR) for different mutations, with prevalence indicated by symbol size. [0050] FIG. 13 provides a non-limiting example of a violin plot of HRD signature score versus different combinations of pathogenic POLE/BRCA variants. DETAILED DESCRIPTION [0051] Methods and systems for identifying samples from subjects for which a determination of TMB using conventional approaches is likely to result in an underestimate, and for more accurately determining TMB based on DNA sequencing data for a sample from a subject, particularly for those subjects for whom TMB is systematically underestimated using conventional approaches, are described. The disclosed methods utilize a machine learning (ML)- based approach to identify samples with high risk for missed tumor mutational burden-high (TMB-H) status. The machine learning model is trained to recognize patterns of short variants detected based on sequence read data (e.g., single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and small insertions/deletions) that are recurrently associated with TMB-H status when tumor content is adequate for confident TMB assessment. The trained model can then be applied to variants detected in samples with low tumor content and apparently low TMB to highlight cases that are at risk for a false negative determination of TMB-H status. [0052] In some instances, for example, methods for identifying a sample from a subject for which tumor mutational burden (TMB) is likely to be underestimated are described, the methods comprising: receiving sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and outputting a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. [0053] In some instances, methods for classifying a sample from a subject according to tumor mutational burden (TMB) status are described, the methods comprising: receiving sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and outputting a classification of the TMB status of the sample. [0054] In some instances, methods for determining a tumor mutational burden (TMB) status for a sample from a subject are described, the methods comprising: receiving sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and outputting a determination of the TMB of the sample. Definitions [0055] Unless otherwise defined, all of the technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art in the field to which this disclosure belongs. [0056] As used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms “a”, “an”, and “the” include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Any reference to “or” herein is intended to encompass “and/or” unless otherwise stated. [0057] ‘ ‘About” and “approximately” shall generally mean an acceptable degree of error for the quantity measured given the nature or precision of the measurements. Exemplary degrees of error are within 20 percent (%), typically, within 10%, and more typically, within 5% of a given value or range of values. [0058] As used herein, the terms 'comprising' (and any form or variant of comprising, such as 'comprise' and 'comprises'), 'having' (and any form or variant of having, such as 'have' and 'has'), 'including' (and any form or variant of including, such as 'includes' and 'include'), or 'containing' (and any form or variant of containing, such as 'contains' and 'contain'), are inclusive or open-ended and do not exclude additional, un-recited additives, components, integers, elements, or method steps. [0059] As used herein, the terms “individual,” “patient,” or “subject” are used interchangeably and refer to any single animal, e.g., a mammal (including such non-human animals as, for example, dogs, cats, horses, rabbits, zoo animals, cows, pigs, sheep, and non-human primates) for which treatment is desired. In particular embodiments, the individual, patient, or subject herein is a human. [0060] The terms “cancer” and “tumor” are used interchangeably herein. These terms refer to the presence of cells possessing characteristics typical of cancer-causing cells, such as uncontrolled proliferation, immortality, metastatic potential, rapid growth and proliferation rate, and certain characteristic morphological features. Cancer cells are often in the form of a tumor, but such cells can exist alone within an animal, or can be a non-tumorigenic cancer cell, such as a leukemia cell. These terms include a solid tumor, a soft tissue tumor, or a metastatic lesion. As used herein, the term “cancer” includes premalignant, as well as malignant cancers. [0061] As used herein, “treatment” (and grammatical variations thereof such as “treat” or “treating”) refers to clinical intervention (e.g., administration of an anti-cancer agent or anticancer therapy) in an attempt to alter the natural course of the individual being treated, and can be performed either for prophylaxis or during the course of clinical pathology. Desirable effects of treatment include, but are not limited to, preventing occurrence or recurrence of disease, alleviation of symptoms, diminishment of any direct or indirect pathological consequences of the disease, preventing metastasis, decreasing the rate of disease progression, amelioration or palliation of the disease state, and remission or improved prognosis. [0062] As used herein, the term “subgenomic interval” (or “subgenomic sequence interval”) refers to a portion of a genomic sequence. [0063] As used herein, the term 'subject interval' refers to a subgenomic interval or an expressed subgenomic interval (e.g., the transcribed sequence of a subgenomic interval). [0064] As used herein, the terms “variant sequence” or “variant” are used interchangeably and refer to a modified nucleic acid sequence relative to a corresponding “normal” or “wild-type” sequence. In some instances, a variant sequence may be a “short variant sequence” (or “short variant”), i.e., a variant sequence of less than about 50 base pairs in length. [0065] The terms “allele frequency” and “allele fraction” are used interchangeably herein and refer to the fraction of sequence reads corresponding to a particular allele relative to the total number of sequence reads for a genomic locus. [0066] The terms “variant allele frequency” and “variant allele fraction” are used interchangeably herein and refer to the fraction of sequence reads corresponding to a particular variant allele relative to the total number of sequence reads for a genomic locus. [0067] Additionally, various implementations of the methods and systems set forth herein may be described in terms of exemplary block diagrams, process flow charts, and other illustrations. As will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art after reading this document, the various implementations set forth herein can be implemented without confinement to the illustrated examples. For example, block diagrams and their accompanying description should not be construed as mandating a particular architecture or configuration. Similarly, in exemplary process flow charts, some blocks are optionally combined, the order of some blocks is optionally changed, and some blocks are optionally omitted. In some implementations, additional steps may be performed in combination with the exemplary processes. Accordingly, the methods and systems as described and illustrated in greater detail below are exemplary by nature and, as such, should not be viewed as limiting. [0068] The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting the subject matter described. Methods for identifying samples for which tumor mutational burden (TMB) may be underestimated & methods for more accurately determining TMB [0069] As noted above, tumor mutational burden (TMB) is a complex biomarker that quantifies the number of mutations in a sample from a subject (e.g., the number of non-pathogenic somatic mutations per megabase in captured regions of the genome) that may contribute to the immunogenicity of a tumor. TMB is therefore considered a predictor of a subject’s (e.g., a cancer patient’s) response to immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICPI) therapy. [0070] Methods for the determination of tumor mutational burden based on DNA sequencing data (e.g., comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) data) for a sample from a subject (e.g., a patient), and it’s use as a biomarker for predicting response to anti-cancer therapies (e.g., immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICPI) therapies) has been described in, for example, International Patent Publication Nos. WO 2017/151524 Al, WO 2019/018757 Al, and WO 2018/068028 Al, the content of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. [0071] Tumor mutational burden may be determined, for example, by measuring as the number of somatic, coding, base substitution and indel mutations, per megabase of genome examined. All base substitutions and indels in the coding region of targeted genes, including synonymous alterations, may be initially counted before filtering as described below. In some instances, synonymous mutations may be counted in order to reduce sampling noise. While synonymous mutations are not likely to be directly involved in creating immunogenicity, their presence is a signal of mutational processes that also result in nonsynonymous mutations and neoantigens elsewhere in the genome. Non-coding alterations are typically not counted. Alterations listed as known somatic alterations in COSMIC and truncations in tumor suppressor genes are typically not counted, since the tested genes are typically biased toward genes with functional mutations in cancer (Bamford, et al., (2004) Br .J Cancer 91:355-8). Alterations predicted to be germline by the somatic-germline-zygosity (SCJZ) algorithm are typically not counted (Sun, et al. (2014) Cancer Research 74(19S): 1893-1893). Alterations that are recurrently predicted to be germline in a cohort of clinical specimens are also typically not counted. Known germline alterations in the Single Nucleotide Polymorphism Database (dbSNP; National Center for Biotechnology Information, NIH) are typically not counted. Germline alterations occurring with two or more counts in the Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC) database (now accessible through the Genome Aggregation Database (gnomAD) browser (Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA)) are also typically not counted (Lek, et al. (2016) Nature 536:285-91). To calculate the TMB per megabase, the total number of mutations counted (after filtering) was divided by the size of the coding region of the targeted territory. In some instances, a statistical test, e.g., the nonparametric Mann- Whitney U-test, may subsequently be used to test for significance in difference of mean TMB between two populations. [0072] Determination of tumor mutation burden using conventional DNA sequencing-based approaches often requires the imposition of a variant allele fraction (VAF) threshold to exclude subclonal or artifactual variants from the calculation of TMB. These VAF thresholds can be considered to impose a tumor purity limit of detection on the accurate determination of TMB. Thus, when tumor purity is low (e.g., tumor purity <10% for tissue, <1% for liquid biopsy), the application of the VAF threshold for inclusion of detected variants in the TMB calculation can cause some clonal variants to be excluded, thereby causing underestimation of the sample’s TMB. Underestimation of the actual TMB for the sample may, in turn, lead to erroneous predictions of a subject’s response to ICPI therapy. Thus, improved methods for determining tumor mutational burden are required to improve the predictive accuracy of this biomarker and associated healthcare outcomes. [0073] This scenario is clearly illustrated in, for example, the analysis of pathogenic POLE mutations (pPOLE) described below in Example 1. POLE is a DNA polymerase that replicates the leading strand during genome replication. Tissue or liquid biopsy samples that comprise pPOLE mutation(s) exhibit the highest median TMB of any mutational process. Among pPOLE+ samples with adequate tumor content, the penetrance of extremely elevated TMB is high. However, when tumor content is below about 10% (for tissue) or 1% (for liquid), many variants are excluded from the TMB calculation, thereby leading to a lower proportion of cases that are classified as tumor mutational burden-high (TMB-H) in that tumor purity range. This scenario can lead to false negative calls for TMB-H in the clinical setting. [0074] The methods disclosed herein address this underestimation of TMB at low tumor content using a machine learning (ML)-based approach in which a model is trained to identify samples at high risk for erroneous TMB-H status calls. The machine learning model is trained to recognize patterns of short variants that are recurrently associated with TMB-H status when tumor content is adequate for confident TMB assessment. The trained model can then be applied to variants observed in samples with low tumor content and TMB to highlight cases that are at risk for a false negative TMB-H status call. [0075] TMB estimates are accurate when tumor content is high, but likely to be underestimated at lower tumor content. This is clearly demonstrated in the pPOLE example (Example 1 and FIG. 9B). The disclosed methods are designed to flag tumor samples with low tumor content and low TMB that are in fact likely to have a TMB-H status that is masked by the VAF cutoff for inclusion of variants in the TMB calculation. As discussed in more detail below, for the data plotted in FIG. 9B the median TMB was >100 mut/mb for the samples in all VAF bins above 5%. Since pPOLE variants are universally monoallelic in a tumor, this corresponds to samples with >10% tumor content. For samples with pPOLE VAF <5% (corresponding to <10% tumor content), the median TMB was considerably lower, with numerous samples demonstrating TMB <10 mut/mb. Given that pPOLE-associated ultra-mutation represents the most extreme TMB scenario, the underestimation of TMB in samples having low tumor content is likely more significant in the setting of other mutational processes. [0076] To our knowledge, the problem of underestimated TMB in samples of low tumor purity has not been addressed. It has been partially addressed in certain use cases. For example, TMB and microsatellite instability (MSI) status are separate biomarkers. In some instances, TMB status is determined to be low (TMB-L) in samples that are micro satellite instability-high (MSI- H) due to the underestimation of TMB in the setting of low tumor content. However, in these cases patients that are likely to respond to ICPI are still identified based on MSI-H status. However, this mitigation scenario only applies to MSI-related mechanisms for the elevation of TMB, and is further limited by the fact that the determination of MSI status is itself also limited by low tumor content. The disclosed methods have the advantage of being potentially applicable to all mutational mechanisms leading to elevated TMB, not just specific use cases like pPOLE or MSI-H. [0077] The machine learning model will incorporate features available in clinical genomics databases including, but not limited to, complex biomarker data, data for known and/or likely pathogenic genomic alterations, data for variants of unknown significance, and copy number alterations. A machine learning model (e.g., a binary classifier or multi-class classifier) will be trained using data for high tumor purity samples (e.g., samples comprising >30% tumor fraction). In some instances, the output of the trained model may comprise a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for a sample is likely to be an underestimate. In some instances, the output of the trained model may comprise a classification of the TMB status of the sample. In some instances, the output of the trained model may comprise a determination of the TMB of the sample. In some instances, for example, the output of the trained machine learning model may comprise a prediction of a purity-adjusted TMB for low tumor purity samples. In some instances, the output of the trained machine learning model may further comprise a determination of the 95% confidence interval for the predicted purity-adjusted TMB for low tumor purity samples. [0078] In some instances, the machine learning model may comprise a supervised, semisupervised, or unsupervised machine learning model. Examples include, but are not limited to, random forest models, logistic regression models, support vector machines (SVMs), XGBoost models, or neural network models. The trained model will infer likely TMB status based on genomic features (e.g., patterns of mutations) that are commonly associated with high TMB. [0079] Baseline clinical validation can be conducted by testing the model predictions against patient treatment outcomes in, e.g., the Clinico-Genomic Database (CGDB; Flatiron Health, New York, NY). Additional validation could be conducted using paired samples (e.g., paired tissue and liquid biopsy samples) for which TMB determination is repeated due to low tumor purity. For these cases, model predictions may be made for an initial, low purity instance and these may be tested on subsequent, higher purity repeat instances (e.g., after requesting a new macro-dissection sample). [0080] FIG. 1 provides a non-limiting schematic illustration of the training, validation, and clinical application of a machine learning model (e.g., a classifier) configured to identify samples that are at risk for underestimating TMB and/or to provide a more accurate determination of TMB for samples for which there is a high probability of underestimating TMB by conventional methods. In some instances, for example, the trained classifier may output a binary prediction for the TMB status of the sample (e.g., TMB-High or TMB Eow), or may output a TMB point estimate along with a 95% confidence interval. [0081] In some instances, the disclosed machine learning-based methods for identifying a sample from a subject for which tumor mutational burden (TMB) is likely to be underestimated may comprise: receiving (e.g., at one or more processors) sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing (e.g., using the one or more processors) the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and outputting (e.g., using the one or more processors) a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimate. [0082] In some instances, the disclosed machine learning-based methods for classifying a sample from a subject according to tumor mutational burden (TMB) status may comprise: receiving (e.g., at one or more processors) sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing (e.g., using the one or more processors) the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and outputting (e.g., using the one or more processors) a classification of the TMB status of the sample. In some instances, the classification of the TMB status may comprise classification of the sample as being TMB-High or TMB-Low. In some instances, the classification of the TMB status may comprise classification of the sample as being TMB-High, TMB-Low, or TMB- Indeterminate. [0083] In some instances, the disclosed machine learning-based methods for determining a tumor mutational burden (TMB) status for a sample from a subject may comprise: receiving (e.g., at one or more processors) sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing (e.g., using the one or more processors) the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and outputting (e.g., using the one or more processors) a determination of the TMB of the sample. In some instances, the determination of TMB further comprises a determination of a 95% confidence interval for the TMB of the sample. [0084] In some instances, the variant data may comprise short variant data (e.g., single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and/or small insertions/deletions). In some instances, the variant data may comprise genomic rearrangement data. [0085] In some instances, the sample data may further comprise mutational signature data (e.g., COSMIC mutational signature data). Examples of COSMIC and/or other mutational signatures that may be assessed include, but are not limited to, the APOBEC signature (signatures 2/13), Tobacco signature, MMR (mismatch repair) signature, UV signature, Alkylating mutational signature, POLE mutational signature, and Signature 14. [0086] In some instances, the sample data may further comprise copy number alteration (CNA) data. For example, in some instances, the copy number alteration (CNA) data may comprise copy number signature data. [0087] In some instances, the sample data may further comprise digital histopathology data, e.g., detection of and/or a count of the number of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes present, etc.). [0088] In some instances, the machine learning model may comprise a supervised, semisupervised, or unsupervised machine learning model. Examples of suitable machine learning models include, but are not limited to, a random forest model, a logistic regression model, a support vector machine (SVM), an XGBoost model, or a neural network. [0089] In some instances, the machine learning model may be trained using at least one training data set comprising sample data for a set of training samples from a cohort of cancer patients. In some instances, the training data set may comprise sample data for training samples having a tumor purity of at least 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, or 30%. [0090] In some instances, the disclosed methods may further comprise processing sequence read data for a plurality of sequence reads obtained from the sample from the subject to generate the sample data. [0091] In some instances, the sample may comprise a tissue biopsy sample, a liquid biopsy sample, or a normal control. For example, in some instances the sample may be a liquid biopsy sample, and may comprise blood, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, sputum, stool, urine, or saliva. In some instances, the sample may be a liquid biopsy sample, and may comprise circulating tumor cells (CTCs). In some instances, the sample may be a liquid biopsy sample, and may comprise cell-free DNA (cfDNA), circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), or any combination thereof. [0092] In some instances, the subject e.g., a patient) may have been diagnosed with a disease, e.g., cancer. In some instances, the TMB status or TMB determined for the sample may be used to predict the subject’s response to an anti-cancer therapy, e.g., an immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICPI) therapy. [0093] In some instances, the disclosed methods may be implemented as part of a complete genomic profiling pipeline for use as, e.g., a decision support tool for pathology to determine which samples require repeat testing. In some instances, the disclosed methods may be used to generate additional Pathology Comment content in reports to contextualize clinically reported results. In some instances, the disclosed methods may potentially be used in clinical or biopharma biomarker studies to identify patients with low reported TMB that are still very likely to benefit from ICPI treatment. [0094] In some instances, the plurality of gene loci (or genomic loci) for which sequencing data is processed to identify variants and determine a tumor mutational burden for the sample may comprise at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 200, 400, 600, 800, 1000, 2000, or more than 2000 gene loci (or genomic loci). [0095] In some instances, the disclosed methods may rely on the detection of variants in the ABL1, ACVR1B, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, ALOX12B, AMER1, APC, AR, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A, ASXL1, ATM, ATR, ATRX, AURKA, AURKB, AXIN1, AXL, BAP1, BARD1, BCL2, BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BCOR, BCORL1, BCR, BRAF, BRCA1, BRCA2, BRD4, BRIP1, BTG1, BTG2, BTK, CALR, CARD11, CASP8, CBFB, CBL, CCND1, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CD22, CD274, CD70, CD74, CD79A, CD79B, CDC73, CDH1, CDK12, CDK4, CDK6, CDK8, CDKN1A, CDKN1B, CDKN2A, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CEBPA, CHEK1, CHEK2, CIC, CREBBP, CRKL, CSF1R, CSF3R, CTCF, CTNNA1, CTNNB1, CUL3, CUL4A, CXCR4, CYP17A1, DAXX, DDR1, DDR2, DIS3, DNMT3A, DOT1L, EED, EGFR, EMSY (Cllorf30), EP300, EPHA3, EPHB1, EPHB4, ERBB2, ERBB3, ERBB4, ERCC4, ERG, ERRFI1, ESRI, ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, EZR, FAM46C, FANCA, FANCC, FANCG, FANCL, FAS, FBXW7, FGF10, FGF12, FGF14, FGF19, FGF23, FGF3, FGF4, FGF6, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, FH, FLCN, FLT1, FLT3, FOXL2, FUBP1, GABRA6, GATA3, GATA4, GATA6, GID4 (C17orf39), GNA11, GNA13, GNAQ, GNAS, GRM3, GSK3B, H3F3A, HDAC1, HGF, HNF1A, HRAS, HSD3B1, ID3, IDH1, IDH2, IGF1R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INPP4B, IRF2, IRF4, IRS2, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, JUN, KDM5A, KDM5C, KDM6A, KDR, KEAP1, KEL, KIT, KLHL6, KMT2A (MLL), KMT2D (MLL2), KRAS, LTK, LYN, MAF, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MAP2K4, MAP3K1, MAP3K13, MAPK1, MCL1, MDM2, MDM4, MED12, MEF2B, MEN1, MERTK, MET, MITF, MKNK1, MLH1, MPL, MRE11A, MSH2, MSH3, MSH6, MST1R, MTAP, MTOR, MUTYH, MYB, MYC, MYCL, MYCN, MYD88, NBN, NF1, NF2, NFE2L2, NFKBIA, NKX2-1, NOTCH1, NOTCH2, NOTCH3, NPM1, NRAS, NT5C2, NTRK1, NTRK2, NTRK3, NUTM1, P2RY8, PALB2, PARK2, PARP1, PARP2, PARP3, PAX5, PBRM1, PDCD1, PDCD1LG2, PDGFRA, PDGFRB, PDK1, PIK3C2B, PIK3C2G, PIK3CA, PIK3CB, PIK3R1, PIM1, PMS2, POLDI, POLE, PPARG, PPP2R1A, PPP2R2A, PRDM1, PRKAR1A, PRKCI, PTCHI, PTEN, PTPN11, PTPRO, QKI, RAC1, RAD21, RAD51, RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, RAD52, RAD54L, RAFI, RARA, RBI, RBM10, REL, RET, RICTOR, RNF43, ROS1, RPTOR, RSPO2, SDC4, SDHA, SDHB, SDHC, SDHD, SETD2, SF3B1, SGK1, SLC34A2, SMAD2, SMAD4, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SMO, SNCAIP, SOCS1, SOX2, SOX9, SPEN, SPOP, SRC, STAG2, STAT3, STK11, SUFU, SYK, TBX3, TEK, TERC, TERT, TET2, TGFBR2, TIPARP, TMPRSS2, TNFAIP3, TNFRSF14, TP53, TSC1, TSC2, TYRO3, U2AF1, VEGFA, VHL, WHSCI, WHSC1L1, WT1, XPO1, XRCC2, ZNF217, or ZNF703 gene locus, or any combination thereof. [0096] In some instances, the disclosed methods may rely on the detection of variants in the ABL, ALK, ALL, B4GALNT1, BAFF, BCL2, BRAF, BRCA, BTK, CD19, CD20, CD3, CD30, CD319, CD38, CD52, CDK4, CDK6, CML, CRACC, CS1, CTLA-4, dMMR, EGFR, ERBB1, ERBB2, FGFR1-3, FLT3, GD2, HDAC, HER1, HER2, HR, IDH2, IL-ip, IL-6, IL-6R, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, KIT, KRAS, MEK, MET, MSI-H, mTOR, PARP, PD-1, PDGFR, PDGFRa, PDGFRP, PD-L1, PI3K5, PIGF, PTCH, RAF, RANKL, RET, ROS1, SLAMF7, VEGF, VEGFA, or VEGFB gene locus, or any combination thereof. Methods of use [0097] In some instances, the disclosed methods may further comprise one or more of the steps of: (i) obtaining the sample from the subject (e.g., a subject suspected of having or determined to have cancer), (ii) extracting nucleic acid molecules (e.g., a mixture of tumor nucleic acid molecules and non-tumor nucleic acid molecules) from the sample, (iii) ligating one or more adapters to the nucleic acid molecules extracted from the sample (e.g., one or more amplification primers, flow cell adaptor sequences, substrate adapter sequences, or sample index sequences), (iv) performing a methylation conversion reaction to convert, e.g., non-methylated cytosine to uracil, (v) amplifying the nucleic acid molecules (e.g., using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 1 amplification technique, a non-PCR amplification technique, or an isothermal amplification technique), (vi) capturing nucleic acid molecules from the amplified nucleic acid molecules (e.g., by hybridization to one or more bait molecules, where the bait molecules each comprise one or more nucleic acid molecules that each comprising a region that is complementary to a region of a captured nucleic acid molecule), (vii) sequencing the nucleic acid molecules extracted from the sample (or library proxies derived therefrom) using, e.g., a next-generation (massively parallel) sequencing technique, a whole genome sequencing (WGS) technique, a whole exome sequencing technique, a targeted sequencing technique, a direct sequencing technique, or a Sanger sequencing technique) using, e.g., a next-generation (massively parallel) sequencer, (viii) combining the nucleic acid sequence data (including, e.g., variant data, copy number data, methylation status data, etc., of the sequenced nucleic acid molecules) with other biomarker data modalities including, but not limited to, proteomics-based biomarker data (e.g., the detection of specific polypeptides, such as proteins) or fragmentomics-based biomarker data (e.g., the detection of certain attributes related to nucleic acid fragments, such as fragment size or the sequences of fragment ends), to determine, for example, the presence of ctDNA in the sample and/or to determine a diagnostic, prognostic, and/or treatment response prediction for the subject, and (ix) generating, displaying, transmitting, and/or delivering a report (e.g., an electronic, webbased, or paper report) to the subject (or patient), a caregiver, a healthcare provider, a physician, an oncologist, an electronic medical record system, a hospital, a clinic, a third-party payer, an insurance company, or a government office. In some instances, the report comprises output from the methods described herein. In some instances, all or a portion of the report may be displayed in the graphical user interface of an online or web-based healthcare portal. In some instances, the report is transmitted via a computer network or peer-to-peer connection. [0098] The disclosed methods may be used with any of a variety of samples. For example, in some instances, the sample may comprise a tissue biopsy sample, a liquid biopsy sample, or a normal control. In some instances, the sample may be a liquid biopsy sample and may comprise blood, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, sputum, stool, urine, or saliva. In some instances, the sample may be a liquid biopsy sample and may comprise circulating tumor cells (CTCs). In some instances, the sample may be a liquid biopsy sample and may comprise cell-free DNA (cfDNA). In some instances, the cell-free DNA (cfDNA), or a portion thereof, may comprise circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA). In some instances, the liquid biopsy sample may comprise a combination of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA). [0099] In some instances, the nucleic acid molecules extracted from a sample may comprise a mixture of tumor nucleic acid molecules and non-tumor nucleic acid molecules. In some instances, the tumor nucleic acid molecules may be derived from a tumor portion of a heterogeneous tissue biopsy sample, and the non-tumor nucleic acid molecules may be derived from a normal portion of the heterogeneous tissue biopsy sample. In some instances, the sample may comprise a liquid biopsy sample, and the tumor nucleic acid molecules may be derived from a circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) fraction of the liquid biopsy sample while the non-tumor nucleic acid molecules may be derived from a non-tumor, cell-free DNA (cfDNA) fraction of the liquid biopsy sample. [0100] In some instances, the disclosed methods for identifying samples at risk of underestimated TMB and/or more accurate determination of TMB status may be used to diagnose (or as part of a diagnosis of) the presence of disease or other condition (e.g., cancer, genetic disorders (such as Down Syndrome and Fragile X), neurological disorders, or any other disease type where detection of variants, e.g., copy number alternations, are relevant to diagnosing, treating, or predicting said disease) in a subject (e.g., a patient). In some instances, the disclosed methods may be applicable to diagnosis of any of a variety of cancers as described elsewhere herein. [0101] In some instances, the disclosed methods for identifying samples at risk of underestimated TMB and/or more accurate determination of TMB status may be used to predict genetic disorders in fetal DNA. (e.g., for invasive or non-invasive prenatal testing). For example, sequence read data obtained by sequencing fetal DNA extracted from samples obtained using invasive amniocentesis, chorionic villus sampling (cVS), or fetal umbilical cord sampling techniques, or obtained using non-invasive sampling of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) samples (which comprises a mix of maternal cfDNA and fetal cfDNA), may be processed according to the disclosed methods to identify variants, e.g., copy number alterations, associated with, e.g., Down Syndrome (trisomy 21), trisomy 18, trisomy 13, and extra or missing copies of the X and Y chromosomes. [0102] In some instances, the disclosed methods for identifying samples at risk of underestimated TMB and/or more accurate determination of TMB status may be used to select a subject (e.g., a patient) for a clinical trial based on the TMB status determined for a sample from the subject. In some instances, patient selection for clinical trials based on, e.g., more accurate determination of TMB status, may accelerate the development of targeted therapies and improve the healthcare outcomes for treatment decisions. [0103] In some instances, the disclosed methods for identifying samples at risk of underestimated TMB and/or more accurate determination of TMB status may be used to select an appropriate therapy or treatment (e.g., an anti-cancer therapy or anti-cancer treatment) for a subject, e.g., by determining whether or not the subject is likely to benefit from treatment with an ICPI. In some instances, an alternative anti-cancer therapy or treatment may be selected based on the determined TMB status, and may comprise use of a poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitor (PARPi), a platinum compound, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, a targeted therapy, an immunotherapy, a neoantigen-based therapy, surgery, or any combination thereof. [0104] In some instances, the anti-cancer therapy or treatment may comprise a targeted anticancer therapy or treatment (e.g., a monoclonal antibody -based therapy, an enzyme inhibitorbased therapy, an antibody-drug conjugate therapy, a hormone therapy, and/or a targeted radiotherapy) that targets specific molecules required for cancer cell growth, division, and spreading. In some instances, the targeted therapy (or anti-cancer target therapy) may comprise abemaciclib (Verzenio), abiraterone acetate (Zytiga), acalabrutinib (Calquence), ado-trastuzumab emtansine (Kadcyla), afatinib dimaleate (Gilotrif), alectinib (Alecensa), alemtuzumab (Campath), alitretinoin (Panretin), alpelisib (Piqray), amivantamab-vmjw (Rybrevant), anastrozole (Arimidex), apalutamide (Erleada), asciminib hydrochloride (Scemblix), atezolizumab (Tecentriq), avapritinib (Ayvakit), avelumab (Bavencio), axicabtagene ciloleucel (Yescarta), axitinib (Inlyta), belantamab mafodotin-blmf (Blenrep), belimumab (Benlysta), belinostat (Beleodaq), belzutifan (Welireg), bevacizumab (Avastin), bexarotene (Targretin), binimetinib (Mektovi), blinatumomab (Blincyto), bortezomib (Velcade), bosutinib (Bosulif), brentuximab vedotin (Adcetris), brexucabtagene autoleucel (Tecartus), brigatinib (Alunbrig), cabazitaxel (Jevtana), cabozantinib (Cabometyx), cabozantinib (Cabometyx, Cometriq), canakinumab (Ilans), capmatinib hydrochloride (Tabrecta), carfilzomib (Kyprolis), cemiplimab- rwlc (Libtayo), ceritinib (LDK378/Zykadia), cetuximab (Erbitux), cobimetinib (Cotellic), crizotinib (Xalkori), dabrafenib (Tafinlar), dacomitinib (Vizimpro), daratumumab (Darzalex), daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj (Darzalex Faspro), darolutamide (Nubeqa), dasatinib (Sprycel), denileukin diftitox (Ontak), denosumab (Xgeva), dinutuximab (Unituxin), dostarlimab-gxly (Jemperli), durvalumab (Imfinzi), duvelisib (Copiktra), elotuzumab (Empliciti), enasidenib mesylate (Idhifa), encorafenib (Braftovi), enfortumab vedotin-ejfv (Padcev), entrectinib (Rozlytrek), enzalutamide (Xtandi), erdafitinib (Balversa), erlotinib (Tarceva), everolimus (Afinitor), exemestane (Aromasin), fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki (Enhertu), fedratinib hydrochloride (Inrebic), fulvestrant (Faslodex), gefitinib (Iressa), gemtuzumab ozogamicin (Mylotarg), gilteritinib (Xospata), glasdegib maleate (Daurismo), hyaluronidase-zzxf (Phesgo), ibrutinib (Imbruvica), ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin), idecabtagene vicleucel (Abecma), idelalisib (Zydelig), imatinib mesylate (Gleevec), infigratinib phosphate (Truseltiq), inotuzumab ozogamicin (Besponsa), ipilimumab (Yervoy), isatuximab-irfc (Sarclisa), ivosidenib (Tibsovo), ixazomib citrate (Ninlaro), lanreotide acetate (Somatuline Depot), lapatinib (Tykerb), larotrectinib sulfate (Vitrakvi), lenvatinib mesylate (Lenvima), letrozole (Femara), lisocabtagene maraleucel (Breyanzi), loncastuximab tesirine-lpyl (Zynlonta), lorlatinib (Lorbrena), lutetium Lu 177-dotatate (Lutathera), margetuximab-cmkb (Margenza), midostaurin (Rydapt), mobocertinib succinate (Exkivity), mogamulizumab-kpkc (Poteligeo), moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk (Lumoxiti), naxitamab-gqgk (Danyelza), necitumumab (Portrazza), neratinib maleate (Nerlynx), nilotinib (Tasigna), niraparib tosylate monohydrate (Zejula), nivolumab (Opdivo), obinutuzumab (Gazyva), ofatumumab (Arzerra), olaparib (Lynparza), olaratumab (Lartruvo), osimertinib (Tagrisso), palbociclib (Ibrance), panitumumab (Vectibix), pazopanib (Votrient), pembrolizumab (Keytruda), pemigatinib (Pemazyre), pertuzumab (Perjeta), pexidartinib hydrochloride (Turalio), polatuzumab vedotin-piiq (Polivy), ponatinib hydrochloride (Iclusig), pralatrexate (Folotyn), pralsetinib (Gavreto), radium 223 dichloride (Xofigo), ramucirumab (Cyramza), regorafenib (Stivarga), ribociclib (Kisqali), ripretinib (Qinlock), rituximab (Rituxan), rituximab and hyaluronidase human (Rituxan Hycela), romidepsin (Istodax), rucaparib camsylate (Rubraca), ruxolitinib phosphate (Jakafi), sacituzumab govitecan-hziy (Trodelvy), seliciclib, selinexor (Xpovio), selpercatinib (Retevmo), selumetinib sulfate (Koselugo), siltuximab (Sylvant), sirolimus protein-bound particles (Fyarro), sonidegib (Odomzo), sorafenib (Nexavar), sotorasib (Lumakras), sunitinib (Sutent), tafasitamab-cxix (Monjuvi), tagraxofusp-erzs (Elzonris), talazoparib tosylate (Talzenna), tamoxifen (Nolvadex), tazemetostat hydrobromide (Tazverik), tebentafusp-tebn (Kimmtrak), temsirolimus (Torisel), tepotinib hydrochloride (Tepmetko), tisagenlecleucel (Kymriah), tisotumab vedotin-tftv (Tivdak), tocilizumab (Actemra), tofacitinib (Xeljanz), tositumomab (Bexxar), trametinib (Mekinist), trastuzumab (Herceptin), tretinoin (Vesanoid), tivozanib hydrochloride (Fotivda), toremifene (Fareston), tucatinib (Tukysa), umbralisib tosylate (Ukoniq), vandetanib (Caprelsa), vemurafenib (Zelboraf), venetoclax (Venclexta), vismodegib (Erivedge), vorinostat (Zolinza), zanubrutinib (Brukinsa), ziv- aflibercept (Zaltrap), or any combination thereof. [0105] In some instances, the anti-cancer therapy or treatment may comprise an immunotherapy (e.g., a cancer treatment that acts by stimulating the immune system to fight cancer). In some instances, the immunotherapy can be, for example, an immune system modulator (e.g., a cytokine, such as an interferon or interleukin), an immune checkpoint inhibitor (such as an anti- PD-1 or anti-PD-Ll antibody), a T-cell transfer therapy (e.g., a tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) therapy in lymphocytes extracted from a patient’ s tumor are selected for their ability to recognize tumor cells and propagated prior to reintroduction into the patient, or a CAR T-cell therapy in which a patient’s T-cells are modified to express the CAR protein prior to reintroduction into the patient), a monoclonal antibody -based therapy (e.g., a monoclonal antibody that binds to cell surface markers on cancer cells to facilitate recognition by the immune system), or a cancer treatment vaccine (e.g., a vaccine based on tumor cells, tumor- associated neoantigens, or dendritic cells, etc., that stimulates the immune system to fight cancer). [0106] In some instances, the anti-cancer therapy or treatment may comprise a neoantigen-based therapy. Non-limiting examples of neoantigen-based therapies include T-cell receptor (TCR) engineered T-cell (TCR-T) therapies, chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapies, TCR bispecific antibody therapies, and cancer vaccines. TCR-T therapies are produced by genetically engineering a patient’s T-cells to express T-cell receptors that are specific to neoantigens of interest, and then infusing them back into the patient. CAR-T therapies are produced by genetically engineering a patient’s T-cells to express chimeric antigen receptor molecules which contain an intracellular signaling and co-signaling domain as well as an extracellular antigenbinding domain; CAR-T therapies don’t always rely on neoantigen presentation, but can be designed to be directed towards neoantigens. TCR bispecific antibody therapies are small, engineered antibody molecules that comprise a neoantigen- specific TCR on one end and a CD3- directed single-chain variable fragment on the other end. Cancer vaccines can include RNA molecules, DNA molecules, peptides, or a combination thereof that are designed to boost the immune system’s ability to find and destroy neoantigen-presenting cells. [0107] In some instances, the disclosed methods for identifying samples at risk of underestimated TMB and/or more accurate determination of TMB status may be used for monitoring disease progression or recurrence (e.g., cancer or tumor progression or recurrence) in a subject. For example, in some instances, the methods may be used to determine TMB status in a first sample obtained from the subject at a first time point, and used to determine TMB status in a second sample obtained from the subject at a second time point, where comparison of the first determination of TMB status and the second determination of TMB status allows one to monitor disease progression or recurrence. In some instances, the first time point is chosen before the subject has been administered a therapy or treatment, and the second time point is chosen after the subject has been administered the therapy or treatment. [0108] In some instances, the disclosed methods may be used for adjusting a therapy or treatment (e.g., an anti-cancer treatment or anti-cancer therapy) for a subject, e.g., by adjusting a treatment dose and/or selecting a different treatment in response to a change in the determination of TMB status. [0109] In some instances, the TMB status or TMB value determined using the disclosed methods may be used as a prognostic or diagnostic indicator associated with the sample. For example, in some instances, the prognostic or diagnostic indicator may comprise an indicator of the presence of a disease (e.g., cancer) in the sample, an indicator of the probability that a disease (e.g., cancer) is present in the sample, an indicator of the probability that the subject from which the sample was derived will develop a disease (e.g., cancer) (z.e., a risk factor), or an indicator of the likelihood that the subject from which the sample was derived will respond to a particular therapy or treatment. [0110] In some instances, the disclosed methods for identifying samples at risk of underestimated TMB and/or more accurate determination of TMB status may be implemented as part of a genomic profiling process that comprises identification of the presence of variant sequences at one or more gene loci in a sample derived from a subject as part of detecting, monitoring, predicting a risk factor, or selecting a treatment for a particular disease, e.g., cancer. In some instances, the variant panel selected for genomic profiling may comprise the detection of variant sequences at a selected set of gene loci. In some instances, the variant panel selected for genomic profiling may comprise detection of variant sequences at a number of gene loci through comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP), which is a next-generation sequencing (NGS) approach used to assess hundreds of genes (including relevant cancer biomarkers) in a single assay. Inclusion of the disclosed methods for identifying samples at risk of underestimated TMB and/or more accurate determination of TMB status as part of a genomic profiling process may improve the validity of, e.g., disease detection calls and treatment decisions, made on the basis of the genomic profile by, for example, independently confirming the TMB status for a given patient sample. [0111] In some instances, a genomic profile may comprise information on the presence of genes (or variant sequences thereof), copy number variations, epigenetic traits, proteins (or modifications thereof), and/or other biomarkers in an individual’s genome and/or proteome, as well as information on the individual’s corresponding phenotypic traits and the interaction between genetic or genomic traits, phenotypic traits, and environmental factors. [0112] In some instances, a genomic profile for the subject may comprise results from a comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) test, a nucleic acid sequencing-based test, a gene expression profiling test, a cancer hotspot panel test, a DNA methylation test, a DNA fragmentation test, an RNA fragmentation test, or any combination thereof. [0113] In some instances, the method can further include administering or applying a treatment or therapy e.g., an anti-cancer agent, anti-cancer treatment, or anti-cancer therapy) to the subject based on the generated genomic profile. An anti-cancer agent or anti-cancer treatment may refer to a compound that is effective in the treatment of cancer cells. Examples of anti-cancer agents or anti-cancer therapies include, but not limited to, alkylating agents, antimetabolites, natural products, hormones, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunotherapy, surgery, or a therapy configured to target a defect in a specific cell signaling pathway, e.g., a defect in a DNA mismatch repair (MMR) pathway. Samples [0114] The disclosed methods and systems may be used with any of a variety of samples (also referred to herein as specimens) comprising nucleic acids (e.g., DNA or RNA) that are collected from a subject (e.g., a patient). Examples of a sample include, but are not limited to, a tumor sample, a tissue sample, a biopsy sample (e.g., a tissue biopsy, a liquid biopsy, or both), a blood sample (e.g., a peripheral whole blood sample), a blood plasma sample, a blood serum sample, a lymph sample, a saliva sample, a sputum sample, a urine sample, a gynecological fluid sample, a circulating tumor cell (CTC) sample, a cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) sample, a pericardial fluid sample, a pleural fluid sample, an ascites (peritoneal fluid) sample, a feces (or stool) sample, or other body fluid, secretion, and/or excretion sample (or cell sample derived therefrom). In certain instances, the sample may be frozen sample or a formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) sample. [0115] In some instances, the sample may be collected by tissue resection (e.g., surgical resection), needle biopsy, bone marrow biopsy, bone marrow aspiration, skin biopsy, endoscopic biopsy, fine needle aspiration, oral swab, nasal swab, vaginal swab or a cytology smear, scrapings, washings or lavages (such as a ductal lavage or bronchoalveolar lavage), etc. [0116] In some instances, the sample is a liquid biopsy sample, and may comprise, e.g., whole blood, blood plasma, blood serum, urine, stool, sputum, saliva, or cerebrospinal fluid. In some instances, the sample may be a liquid biopsy sample and may comprise circulating tumor cells (CTCs). In some instances, the sample may be a liquid biopsy sample and may comprise cell- free DNA (cfDNA), circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), or any combination thereof. [0117] In some instances, the sample may comprise one or more premalignant or malignant cells. Premalignant, as used herein, refers to a cell or tissue that is not yet malignant but is poised to become malignant. In certain instances, the sample may be acquired from a solid tumor, a soft tissue tumor, or a metastatic lesion. In certain instances, the sample may be acquired from a hematologic malignancy or pre-malignancy. In other instances, the sample may comprise a tissue or cells from a surgical margin. In certain instances, the sample may comprise tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. In some instances, the sample may comprise one or more non- malignant cells. In some instances, the sample may be, or is part of, a primary tumor or a metastasis (e.g., a metastasis biopsy sample). In some instances, the sample may be obtained from a site (e.g., a tumor site) with the highest percentage of tumor (e.g., tumor cells) as compared to adjacent sites (e.g., sites adjacent to the tumor). In some instances, the sample may be obtained from a site (e.g., a tumor site) with the largest tumor focus (e.g., the largest number of tumor cells as visualized under a microscope) as compared to adjacent sites (e.g., sites adjacent to the tumor). [0118] In some instances, the disclosed methods may further comprise analyzing a primary control (e.g., a normal tissue sample). In some instances, the disclosed methods may further comprise determining if a primary control is available and, if so, isolating a control nucleic acid (e.g., DNA) from said primary control. In some instances, the sample may comprise any normal control (e.g., a normal adjacent tissue (NAT)) if no primary control is available. In some instances, the sample may be or may comprise histologically normal tissue. In some instances, the method includes evaluating a sample, e.g., a histologically normal sample (e.g., from a surgical tissue margin) using the methods described herein. In some instances, the disclosed methods may further comprise acquiring a sub-sample enriched for non-tumor cells, e.g., by macro-dissecting non-tumor tissue from said NAT in a sample not accompanied by a primary control. In some instances, the disclosed methods may further comprise determining that no primary control and no NAT is available, and marking said sample for analysis without a matched control. [0119] In some instances, samples obtained from histologically normal tissues (e.g., otherwise histologically normal surgical tissue margins) may still comprise a genetic alteration such as a variant sequence as described herein. The methods may thus further comprise re-classifying a sample based on the presence of the detected genetic alteration. In some instances, multiple samples (e.g., from different subjects) are processed simultaneously. [0120] The disclosed methods and systems may be applied to the analysis of nucleic acids extracted from any of variety of tissue samples (or disease states thereof), e.g., solid tissue samples, soft tissue samples, metastatic lesions, or liquid biopsy samples. Examples of tissues include, but are not limited to, connective tissue, muscle tissue, nervous tissue, epithelial tissue, and blood. Tissue samples may be collected from any of the organs within an animal or human body. Examples of human organs include, but are not limited to, the brain, heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, pancreas, spleen, thyroid, mammary glands, uterus, prostate, large intestine, small intestine, bladder, bone, skin, etc. [0121] In some instances, the nucleic acids extracted from the sample may comprise deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) molecules. Examples of DNA that may be suitable for analysis by the disclosed methods include, but are not limited to, genomic DNA or fragments thereof, mitochondrial DNA or fragments thereof, cell-free DNA (cfDNA), and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA). Cell-free DNA (cfDNA) is comprised of fragments of DNA that are released from normal and/or cancerous cells during apoptosis and necrosis, and circulate in the blood stream and/or accumulate in other bodily fluids. Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is comprised of fragments of DNA that are released from cancerous cells and tumors that circulate in the blood stream and/or accumulate in other bodily fluids. [0122] In some instances, DNA is extracted from nucleated cells from the sample. In some instances, a sample may have a low nucleated cellularity, e.g., when the sample is comprised mainly of erythrocytes, lesional cells that contain excessive cytoplasm, or tissue with fibrosis. In some instances, a sample with low nucleated cellularity may require more, e.g., greater, tissue volume for DNA extraction. [0123] In some instances, the nucleic acids extracted from the sample may comprise ribonucleic acid (RNA) molecules. Examples of RNA that may be suitable for analysis by the disclosed methods include, but are not limited to, total cellular RNA, total cellular RNA after depletion of certain abundant RNA sequences e.g., ribosomal RNAs), cell-free RNA (cfRNA), messenger RNA (mRNA) or fragments thereof, the poly(A)-tailed mRNA fraction of the total RNA, ribosomal RNA (rRNA) or fragments thereof, transfer RNA (tRNA) or fragments thereof, and mitochondrial RNA or fragments thereof. In some instances, RNA may be extracted from the sample and converted to complementary DNA (cDNA) using, e.g., a reverse transcription reaction. In some instances, the cDNA is produced by random-primed cDNA synthesis methods. In other instances, the cDNA synthesis is initiated at the poly (A) tail of mature mRNAs by priming with oligo(dT)-containing oligonucleotides. Methods for depletion, poly(A) enrichment, and cDNA synthesis are well known to those of skill in the art. [0124] In some instances, the sample may comprise a tumor content (e.g., comprising tumor cells or tumor cell nuclei), or a non-tumor content (e.g., immune cells, fibroblasts, and other nontumor cells). In some instances, the tumor content of the sample may constitute a sample metric. In some instances, the sample may comprise a tumor content of at least 5-50%, 10-40%, 15-25%, or 20-30% tumor cell nuclei. In some instances, the sample may comprise a tumor content of at least 5%, at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, or at least 50% tumor cell nuclei. In some instances, the percent tumor cell nuclei (e.g., sample fraction) is determined (e.g., calculated) by dividing the number of tumor cells in the sample by the total number of all cells within the sample that have nuclei. In some instances, for example when the sample is a liver sample comprising hepatocytes, a different tumor content calculation may be required due to the presence of hepatocytes having nuclei with twice, or more than twice, the DNA content of other, e.g., non-hepatocyte, somatic cell nuclei. In some instances, the sensitivity of detection of a genetic alteration, e.g., a variant sequence, or a determination of, e.g., micro satellite instability, may depend on the tumor content of the sample. For example, a sample having a lower tumor content can result in lower sensitivity of detection for a given size sample. [0125] In some instances, as noted above, the sample comprises nucleic acid (e.g., DNA, RNA (or a cDNA derived from the RNA), or both), e.g., from a tumor or from normal tissue. In certain instances, the sample may further comprise a non-nucleic acid component, e.g., cells, protein, carbohydrate, or lipid, e.g., from the tumor or normal tissue. Subjects [0126] In some instances, the sample is obtained (e.g., collected) from a subject (e.g., patient) with a condition or disease (e.g., a hyperproliferative disease or a non-cancer indication) or suspected of having the condition or disease. In some instances, the hyperproliferative disease is a cancer. In some instances, the cancer is a solid tumor or a metastatic form thereof. In some instances, the cancer is a hematological cancer, e.g., a leukemia or lymphoma. [0127] In some instances, the subject has a cancer or is at risk of having a cancer. For example, in some instances, the subject has a genetic predisposition to a cancer (e.g., having a genetic mutation that increases his or her baseline risk for developing a cancer). In some instances, the subject has been exposed to an environmental perturbation (e.g., radiation or a chemical) that increases his or her risk for developing a cancer. In some instances, the subject is in need of being monitored for development of a cancer. In some instances, the subject is in need of being monitored for cancer progression or regression, e.g., after being treated with an anti-cancer therapy (or anti-cancer treatment). In some instances, the subject is in need of being monitored for relapse of cancer. In some instances, the subject is in need of being monitored for minimum residual disease (MRD). In some instances, the subject has been, or is being treated, for cancer. In some instances, the subject has not been treated with an anti-cancer therapy (or anti-cancer treatment). [0128] In some instances, the subject (e.g., a patient) is being treated, or has been previously treated, with one or more targeted therapies. In some instances, e.g., for a patient who has been previously treated with a targeted therapy, a post-targeted therapy sample (e.g., specimen) is obtained (e.g., collected). In some instances, the post-targeted therapy sample is a sample obtained after the completion of the targeted therapy. [0129] In some instances, the patient has not been previously treated with a targeted therapy. In some instances, e.g., for a patient who has not been previously treated with a targeted therapy, the sample comprises a resection, e.g., an original resection, or a resection following recurrence (e.g., following a disease recurrence post-therapy). Cancers [0130] In some instances, the sample is acquired from a subject having a cancer. Exemplary cancers include, but are not limited to, B cell cancer (e.g., multiple myeloma), melanomas, breast cancer, lung cancer (such as non-small cell lung carcinoma or NSCLC), bronchus cancer, colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, pancreatic cancer, stomach cancer, ovarian cancer, urinary bladder cancer, brain or central nervous system cancer, peripheral nervous system cancer, esophageal cancer, cervical cancer, uterine or endometrial cancer, cancer of the oral cavity or pharynx, liver cancer, kidney cancer, testicular cancer, biliary tract cancer, small bowel or appendix cancer, salivary gland cancer, thyroid gland cancer, adrenal gland cancer, osteosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, cancer of hematological tissues, adenocarcinomas, inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors, gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), colon cancer, multiple myeloma (MM), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), myeloproliferative disorder (MPD), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myelocytic leukemia (AML), chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), polycythemia Vera, Hodgkin lymphoma, nonHodgkin lymphoma (NHL), soft-tissue sarcoma, fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, chordoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma, lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, bladder carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, meningioma, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, thyroid cancer, gastric cancer, head and neck cancer, small cell cancers, essential thrombocythemia, agnogenic myeloid metaplasia, hypereosinophilic syndrome, systemic mastocytosis, familiar hypereosinophilia, chronic eosinophilic leukemia, neuroendocrine cancers, carcinoid tumors, and the like. [0131] In some instances, the cancer comprises acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Philadelphia chromosome positive), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (precursor B-cell), acute myeloid leukemia (FLT3+), acute myeloid leukemia (with an IDH2 mutation), anaplastic large cell lymphoma, basal cell carcinoma, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, bladder cancer, breast cancer (HER2 overexpressed/amplified), breast cancer (HER2+), breast cancer (HR+, HER2-), cervical cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (with 17p deletion), chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia (Philadelphia chromosome positive), classical Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, colorectal cancer (dMMR and MSLH), colorectal cancer (KRAS wild type), cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome, a cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, a diffuse large B- cell lymphoma, fallopian tube cancer, a follicular B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a follicular lymphoma, gastric cancer, gastric cancer (HER2+), a gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma, a gastrointestinal stromal tumor, a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (KIT+), a giant cell tumor of the bone, a glioblastoma, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, a head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, a hepatocellular carcinoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, lupus erythematosus, a mantle cell lymphoma, medullary thyroid cancer, melanoma, a melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation, a melanoma with a BRAF V600E or V600K mutation, Merkel cell carcinoma, multicentric Castleman's disease, multiple hematologic malignancies including Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL and CML, multiple myeloma, myelofibrosis, a non-Hodgkin’ s lymphoma, a nonresectable subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with tuberous sclerosis, a non-small cell lung cancer, a non-small cell lung cancer (ALK+), a non-small cell lung cancer (PD-L1+), a non-small cell lung cancer (with ALK fusion or ROS1 gene alteration), a non-small cell lung cancer (with BRAF V600E mutation), a non-small cell lung cancer (with an EGFR exon 19 deletion or exon 21 substitution (L858R) mutations), a non- small cell lung cancer (with an EGFR T790M mutation), ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer (with a BRCA mutation), pancreatic cancer, a pancreatic, gastrointestinal, or lung origin neuroendocrine tumor, a pediatric neuroblastoma, a peripheral T-cell lymphoma, peritoneal cancer, prostate cancer, a renal cell carcinoma, rheumatoid arthritis, a small lymphocytic lymphoma, a soft tissue sarcoma, a solid tumor (MSI-H/dMMR), a squamous cell cancer of the head and neck, a squamous non-small cell lung cancer, thyroid cancer, a thyroid carcinoma, urothelial cancer, a urothelial carcinoma, or Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. [0132] In some instances, the cancer is a hematologic malignancy (or premaligancy). As used herein, a hematologic malignancy refers to a tumor of the hematopoietic or lymphoid tissues, e.g., a tumor that affects blood, bone marrow, or lymph nodes. Exemplary hematologic malignancies include, but are not limited to, leukemia (e.g., acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), hairy cell leukemia, acute monocytic leukemia (AMoL), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML), or large granular lymphocytic leukemia), lymphoma (e.g., AIDS-related lymphoma, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, Hodgkin lymphoma (e.g., classical Hodgkin lymphoma or nodular lymphocyte- predominant Hodgkin lymphoma), mycosis fungoides, non-Hodgkin lymphoma (e.g., B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (e.g., Burkitt lymphoma, small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, immunoblastic large cell lymphoma, precursor B-lymphoblastic lymphoma, or mantle cell lymphoma) or T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (mycosis fungoides, anaplastic large cell lymphoma, or precursor T-lymphoblastic lymphoma)), primary central nervous system lymphoma, Sezary syndrome, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia), chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm, Langerhans cell histiocytosis, multiple myeloma/plasma cell neoplasm, myelodysplastic syndrome, or myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm. Nucleic acid extraction and processing [0133] DNA or RNA may be extracted from tissue samples, biopsy samples, blood samples, or other bodily fluid samples using any of a variety of techniques known to those of skill in the art (see, e.g., Example 1 of International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2012/092426; Tan, et al. (2009), “DNA, RNA, and Protein Extraction: The Past and The Present”, J. Biomed. Biotech. 2009:574398; the technical literature for the Maxwell® 16 LEV Blood DNA Kit (Promega Corporation, Madison, WI); and the Maxwell 16 Buccal Swab LEV DNA Purification Kit Technical Manual (Promega Literature #TM333, January 1, 2011, Promega Corporation, Madison, WI)). Protocols for RNA isolation are disclosed in, e.g., the Maxwell® 16 Total RNA Purification Kit Technical Bulletin (Promega Literature #TB351, August 2009, Promega Corporation, Madison, WI). [0134] A typical DNA extraction procedure, for example, comprises (i) collection of the fluid sample, cell sample, or tissue sample from which DNA is to be extracted, (ii) disruption of cell membranes (i.e., cell lysis), if necessary, to release DNA and other cytoplasmic components, (iii) treatment of the fluid sample or lysed sample with a concentrated salt solution to precipitate proteins, lipids, and RNA, followed by centrifugation to separate out the precipitated proteins, lipids, and RNA, and (iv) purification of DNA from the supernatant to remove detergents, proteins, salts, or other reagents used during the cell membrane lysis step. [0135] Disruption of cell membranes may be performed using a variety of mechanical shear (e.g., by passing through a French press or fine needle) or ultrasonic disruption techniques. The cell lysis step often comprises the use of detergents and surfactants to solubilize lipids the cellular and nuclear membranes. In some instances, the lysis step may further comprise use of proteases to break down protein, and/or the use of an RNase for digestion of RNA in the sample. [0136] Examples of suitable techniques for DNA purification include, but are not limited to, (i) precipitation in ice-cold ethanol or isopropanol, followed by centrifugation (precipitation of DNA may be enhanced by increasing ionic strength, e.g., by addition of sodium acetate), (ii) phenol-chloroform extraction, followed by centrifugation to separate the aqueous phase containing the nucleic acid from the organic phase containing denatured protein, and (iii) solid phase chromatography where the nucleic acids adsorb to the solid phase (e.g., silica or other) depending on the pH and salt concentration of the buffer. [0137] In some instances, cellular and histone proteins bound to the DNA may be removed either by adding a protease or by having precipitated the proteins with sodium or ammonium acetate, or through extraction with a phenol-chloroform mixture prior to a DNA precipitation step. [0138] In some instances, DNA may be extracted using any of a variety of suitable commercial DNA extraction and purification kits. Examples include, but are not limited to, the QIAamp (for isolation of genomic DNA from human samples) and DNAeasy (for isolation of genomic DNA from animal or plant samples) kits from Qiagen (Germantown, MD) or the Maxwell® and ReliaPrep™ series of kits from Promega (Madison, WI). [0139] As noted above, in some instances the sample may comprise a formalin-fixed (also known as formaldehyde-fixed, or paraformaldehyde-fixed), paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue preparation. For example, the FFPE sample may be a tissue sample embedded in a matrix, e.g., an FFPE block. Methods to isolate nucleic acids (e.g., DNA) from formaldehyde- or paraformaldehyde-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues are disclosed in, e.g., Cronin, et al., (2004) Am J Pathol. 164(l):35-42; Masuda, et al., (1999) Nucleic Acids Res. 27 (22): 4436-4443; Specht, et al., (2001) Am J Pathol. 158(2):419-429; the Ambion RecoverAll™ Total Nucleic Acid Isolation Protocol (Ambion, Cat. No. AM1975, September 2008); the Maxwell® 16 FFPE Plus EEV DNA Purification Kit Technical Manual (Promega Eiterature #TM349, February 2011); the E.Z.N.A.® FFPE DNA Kit Handbook (OMEGA bio-tek, Norcross, GA, product numbers D3399-00, D3399-01, and D3399-02, June 2009); and the QIAamp® DNA FFPE Tissue Handbook (Qiagen, Cat. No. 37625, October 2007). For example, the RecoverAll™ Total Nucleic Acid Isolation Kit uses xylene at elevated temperatures to solubilize paraffin- embedded samples and a glass-fiber filter to capture nucleic acids. The Maxwell® 16 FFPE Plus LEV DNA Purification Kit is used with the Maxwell® 16 Instrument for purification of genomic DNA from 1 to 10 pm sections of FFPE tissue. DNA is purified using silica-clad paramagnetic particles (PMPs), and eluted in low elution volume. The E.Z.N.A.® FFPE DNA Kit uses a spin column and buffer system for isolation of genomic DNA. QIAamp® DNA FFPE Tissue Kit uses QIAamp® DNA Micro technology for purification of genomic and mitochondrial DNA. [0140] In some instances, the disclosed methods may further comprise determining or acquiring a yield value for the nucleic acid extracted from the sample and comparing the determined value to a reference value. For example, if the determined or acquired value is less than the reference value, the nucleic acids may be amplified prior to proceeding with library construction. In some instances, the disclosed methods may further comprise determining or acquiring a value for the size (or average size) of nucleic acid fragments in the sample, and comparing the determined or acquired value to a reference value, e.g., a size (or average size) of at least 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1000 base pairs (bps). In some instances, one or more parameters described herein may be adjusted or selected in response to this determination. [0141] After isolation, the nucleic acids are typically dissolved in a slightly alkaline buffer, e.g., Tris-EDTA (TE) buffer, or in ultra-pure water. In some instances, the isolated nucleic acids (e.g., genomic DNA) may be fragmented or sheared by using any of a variety of techniques known to those of skill in the art. For example, genomic DNA can be fragmented by physical shearing methods, enzymatic cleavage methods, chemical cleavage methods, and other methods known to those of skill in the art. Methods for DNA shearing are described in Example 4 in International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2012/092426. In some instances, alternatives to DNA shearing methods can be used to avoid a ligation step during library preparation. Library preparation [0142] In some instances, the nucleic acids isolated from the sample may be used to construct a library (e.g., a nucleic acid library as described herein). In some instances, the nucleic acids are fragmented using any of the methods described above, optionally subjected to repair of chain end damage, and optionally ligated to synthetic adapters, primers, and/or barcodes (e.g., amplification primers, sequencing adapters, flow cell adapters, substrate adapters, sample barcodes or indexes, and/or unique molecular identifier sequences), size-selected (e.g., by preparative gel electrophoresis), and/or amplified (e.g., using PCR, a non-PCR amplification technique, or an isothermal amplification technique). In some instances, the fragmented and adapter-ligated group of nucleic acids is used without explicit size selection or amplification prior to hybridization-based selection of target sequences. In some instances, the nucleic acid is amplified by any of a variety of specific or non-specific nucleic acid amplification methods known to those of skill in the art. In some instances, the nucleic acids are amplified, e.g., by a whole-genome amplification method such as random-primed strand-displacement amplification. Examples of nucleic acid library preparation techniques for next-generation sequencing are described in, e.g., van Dijk, et al. (2014), Exp. Cell Research 322:12 - 20, and Illumina’s genomic DNA sample preparation kit. [0143] In some instances, the resulting nucleic acid library may contain all or substantially all of the complexity of the genome. The term “substantially all” in this context refers to the possibility that there can in practice be some unwanted loss of genome complexity during the initial steps of the procedure. The methods described herein also are useful in cases where the nucleic acid library comprises a portion of the genome, e.g., where the complexity of the genome is reduced by design. In some instances, any selected portion of the genome can be used with a method described herein. For example, in certain embodiments, the entire exome or a subset thereof is isolated. In some instances, the library may include at least 95%, 90%, 80%, 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, 20%, 10%, or 5% of the genomic DNA. In some instances, the library may consist of cDNA copies of genomic DNA that includes copies of at least 95%, 90%, 80%, 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, 20%, 10%, or 5% of the genomic DNA. In certain instances, the amount of nucleic acid used to generate the nucleic acid library may be less than 5 micrograms, less than 1 microgram, less than 500 ng, less than 200 ng, less than 100 ng, less than 50 ng, less than 10 ng, less than 5 ng, or less than 1 ng. [0144] In some instances, a library (e.g., a nucleic acid library) includes a collection of nucleic acid molecules. As described herein, the nucleic acid molecules of the library can include a target nucleic acid molecule e.g., a tumor nucleic acid molecule, a reference nucleic acid molecule and/or a control nucleic acid molecule; also referred to herein as a first, second and/or third nucleic acid molecule, respectively). The nucleic acid molecules of the library can be from a single subject or individual. In some instances, a library can comprise nucleic acid molecules derived from more than one subject (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30 or more subjects). For example, two or more libraries from different subjects can be combined to form a library having nucleic acid molecules from more than one subject (where the nucleic acid molecules derived from each subject are optionally ligated to a unique sample barcode corresponding to a specific subject). In some instances, the subject is a human having, or at risk of having, a cancer or tumor. [0145] In some instances, the library (or a portion thereof) may comprise one or more subgenomic intervals. In some instances, a subgenomic interval can be a single nucleotide position, e.g., a nucleotide position for which a variant at the position is associated (positively or negatively) with a tumor phenotype. In some instances, a subgenomic interval comprises more than one nucleotide position. Such instances include sequences of at least 2, 5, 10, 50, 100, 150, 250, or more than 250 nucleotide positions in length. Subgenomic intervals can comprise, e.g., one or more entire genes (or portions thereof), one or more exons or coding sequences (or portions thereof), one or more introns (or portion thereof), one or more microsatellite region (or portions thereof), or any combination thereof. A subgenomic interval can comprise all or a part of a fragment of a naturally occurring nucleic acid molecule, e.g., a genomic DNA molecule. For example, a subgenomic interval can correspond to a fragment of genomic DNA which is subjected to a sequencing reaction. In some instances, a subgenomic interval is a continuous sequence from a genomic source. In some instances, a subgenomic interval includes sequences that are not contiguous in the genome, e.g., subgenomic intervals in cDNA can include exonexonjunctions formed as a result of splicing. In some instances, the subgenomic interval comprises a tumor nucleic acid molecule. In some instances, the subgenomic interval comprises a non-tumor nucleic acid molecule. Targeting gene loci for analysis [0146] The methods described herein can be used in combination with, or as part of, a method for evaluating a plurality or set of subject intervals (e.g., target sequences), e.g., from a set of genomic loci (e.g., gene loci or fragments thereof), as described herein. [0147] In some instances, the set of genomic loci evaluated by the disclosed methods comprises a plurality of, e.g., genes, which in mutant form, are associated with an effect on cell division, growth or survival, or are associated with a cancer, e.g., a cancer described herein. [0148] In some instances, the set of gene loci evaluated by the disclosed methods comprises at least 1, at least 2, at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at least 8, at least 9, at least 10, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 90, at least 100, or more than 100 gene loci. [0149] In some instances, the selected gene loci (also referred to herein as target gene loci or target sequences), or fragments thereof, may include subject intervals comprising non-coding sequences, coding sequences, intragenic regions, or intergenic regions of the subject genome. For example, the subject intervals can include a non-coding sequence or fragment thereof (e.g., a promoter sequence, enhancer sequence, 5’ untranslated region (5’ UTR), 3’ untranslated region (3’ UTR), or a fragment thereof), a coding sequence of fragment thereof, an exon sequence or fragment thereof, an intron sequence or a fragment thereof. Target capture reagents [0150] The methods described herein may comprise contacting a nucleic acid library with a plurality of target capture reagents in order to select and capture a plurality of specific target sequences (e.g., gene sequences or fragments thereof) for analysis. In some instances, a target capture reagent (i.e., a molecule which can bind to and thereby allow capture of a target molecule) is used to select the subject intervals to be analyzed. For example, a target capture reagent can be a bait molecule, e.g., a nucleic acid molecule (e.g., a DNA molecule or RNA molecule) which can hybridize to (i.e., is complementary to) a target molecule, and thereby allows capture of the target nucleic acid. In some instances, the target capture reagent, e.g., a bait molecule (or bait sequence), is a capture oligonucleotide (or capture probe). In some instances, the target nucleic acid is a genomic DNA molecule, an RNA molecule, a cDNA molecule derived from an RNA molecule, a microsatellite DNA sequence, and the like. In some instances, the target capture reagent is suitable for solution-phase hybridization to the target. In some instances, the target capture reagent is suitable for solid-phase hybridization to the target. In some instances, the target capture reagent is suitable for both solution-phase and solid-phase hybridization to the target. The design and construction of target capture reagents is described in more detail in, e.g., International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2020/236941, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. [0151] The methods described herein provide for optimized sequencing of a large number of genomic loci (e.g., genes or gene products (e.g., mRNA), micro satellite loci, etc.) from samples (e.g., cancerous tissue specimens, liquid biopsy samples, and the like) from one or more subjects by the appropriate selection of target capture reagents to select the target nucleic acid molecules to be sequenced. In some instances, a target capture reagent may hybridize to a specific target locus, e.g., a specific target gene locus or fragment thereof. In some instances, a target capture reagent may hybridize to a specific group of target loci, e.g., a specific group of gene loci or fragments thereof. In some instances, a plurality of target capture reagents comprising a mix of target- specific and/or group- specific target capture reagents may be used. [0152] In some instances, the number of target capture reagents (e.g., bait molecules) in the plurality of target capture reagents (e.g., a bait set) contacted with a nucleic acid library to capture a plurality of target sequences for nucleic acid sequencing is greater than 10, greater than 50, greater than 100, greater than 200, greater than 300, greater than 400, greater than 500, greater than 600, greater than 700, greater than 800, greater than 900, greater than 1,000, greater than 1,250, greater than 1,500, greater than 1,750, greater than 2,000, greater than 3,000, greater than 4,000, greater than 5,000, greater than 10,000, greater than 25,000, or greater than 50,000. [0153] In some instances, the overall length of the target capture reagent sequence can be between about 70 nucleotides and 1000 nucleotides. In one instance, the target capture reagent length is between about 100 and 300 nucleotides, 110 and 200 nucleotides, or 120 and 170 nucleotides, in length. In addition to those mentioned above, intermediate oligonucleotide lengths of about 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 210, 220, 230, 240, 250, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, and 900 nucleotides in length can be used in the methods described herein. In some embodiments, oligonucleotides of about 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 210, 220, or 230 bases can be used. [0154] In some instances, each target capture reagent sequence can include: (i) a target- specific capture sequence (e.g., a gene locus or micro satellite locus- specific complementary sequence), (ii) an adapter, primer, barcode, and/or unique molecular identifier sequence, and (iii) universal tails on one or both ends. As used herein, the term 'target capture reagent' can refer to the targetspecific target capture sequence or to the entire target capture reagent oligonucleotide including the target- specific target capture sequence. [0155] In some instances, the target- specific capture sequences in the target capture reagents are between about 40 nucleotides and 1000 nucleotides in length. In some instances, the targetspecific capture sequence is between about 70 nucleotides and 300 nucleotides in length. In some instances, the target- specific sequence is between about 100 nucleotides and 200 nucleotides in length. In yet other instances, the target- specific sequence is between about 120 nucleotides and 170 nucleotides in length, typically 120 nucleotides in length. Intermediate lengths in addition to those mentioned above also can be used in the methods described herein, such as target- specific sequences of about 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 210, 220, 230, 240, 250, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, and 900 nucleotides in length, as well as target- specific sequences of lengths between the above-mentioned lengths. [0156] In some instances, the target capture reagent may be designed to select a subject interval containing one or more rearrangements, e.g., an intron containing a genomic rearrangement. In such instances, the target capture reagent is designed such that repetitive sequences are masked to increase the selection efficiency. In those instances where the rearrangement has a known juncture sequence, complementary target capture reagents can be designed to recognize the juncture sequence to increase the selection efficiency. [0157] In some instances, the disclosed methods may comprise the use of target capture reagents designed to capture two or more different target categories, each category having a different target capture reagent design strategy. In some instances, the hybridization-based capture methods and target capture reagent compositions disclosed herein may provide for the capture and homogeneous coverage of a set of target sequences, while minimizing coverage of genomic sequences outside of the targeted set of sequences. In some instances, the target sequences may include the entire exome of genomic DNA or a selected subset thereof. In some instances, the target sequences may include, e.g., a large chromosomal region (e.g., a whole chromosome arm). The methods and compositions disclosed herein provide different target capture reagents for achieving different sequencing depths and patterns of coverage for complex sets of target nucleic acid sequences. [0158] Typically, DNA molecules are used as target capture reagent sequences, although RNA molecules can also be used. In some instances, a DNA molecule target capture reagent can be single stranded DNA (ssDNA) or double- stranded DNA (dsDNA). In some instances, an RNA- DNA duplex is more stable than a DNA-DNA duplex and therefore provides for potentially better capture of nucleic acids. [0159] In some instances, the disclosed methods comprise providing a selected set of nucleic acid molecules (e.g., a library catch) captured from one or more nucleic acid libraries. For example, the method may comprise: providing one or a plurality of nucleic acid libraries, each comprising a plurality of nucleic acid molecules (e.g., a plurality of target nucleic acid molecules and/or reference nucleic acid molecules) extracted from one or more samples from one or more subjects; contacting the one or a plurality of libraries (e.g., in a solution-based hybridization reaction) with one, two, three, four, five, or more than five pluralities of target capture reagents (e.g., oligonucleotide target capture reagents) to form a hybridization mixture comprising a plurality of target capture reagent/nucleic acid molecule hybrids; separating the plurality of target capture reagent/nucleic acid molecule hybrids from said hybridization mixture, e.g., by contacting said hybridization mixture with a binding entity that allows for separation of said plurality of target capture reagent/nucleic acid molecule hybrids from the hybridization mixture, thereby providing a library catch (e.g., a selected or enriched subgroup of nucleic acid molecules from the one or a plurality of libraries). [0160] In some instances, the disclosed methods may further comprise amplifying the library catch (e.g., by performing PCR). In other instances, the library catch is not amplified. [0161] In some instances, the target capture reagents can be part of a kit which can optionally comprise instructions, standards, buffers or enzymes or other reagents. Hybridization conditions [0162] As noted above, the methods disclosed herein may include the step of contacting the library (e.g., the nucleic acid library) with a plurality of target capture reagents to provide a selected library target nucleic acid sequences (z.e., the library catch). The contacting step can be effected in, e.g., solution-based hybridization. In some instances, the method includes repeating the hybridization step for one or more additional rounds of solution-based hybridization. In some instances, the method further includes subjecting the library catch to one or more additional rounds of solution-based hybridization with the same or a different collection of target capture reagents. [0163] In some instances, the contacting step is effected using a solid support, e.g., an array. Suitable solid supports for hybridization are described in, e.g., Albert, T.J. et al. (2007) Nat. Methods 4(1 l):903-5; Hodges, E. et al. (2007) Nat. Genet. 39(12): 1522-7; and Okou, D.T. et al. (2007) Nat. Methods 4(11 ):907-9, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. [0164] Hybridization methods that can be adapted for use in the methods herein are described in the art, e.g., as described in International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2012/092426. Methods for hybridizing target capture reagents to a plurality of target nucleic acids are described in more detail in, e.g., International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2020/236941, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. Sequencing methods [0165] The methods and systems disclosed herein can be used in combination with, or as part of, a method or system for sequencing nucleic acids e.g., a next-generation sequencing system) to generate a plurality of sequence reads that overlap one or more gene loci within a subgenomic interval in the sample and thereby determine, e.g., gene allele sequences at a plurality of gene loci. “Next-generation sequencing” (or “NGS”) as used herein may also be referred to as “massively parallel sequencing” (or “MPS”), and refers to any sequencing method that determines the nucleotide sequence of either individual nucleic acid molecules e.g., as in single molecule sequencing) or clonally expanded proxies for individual nucleic acid molecules in a high throughput fashion (e.g., wherein greater than 103, 104, 105 or more than 105 molecules are sequenced simultaneously). [0166] Next-generation sequencing methods are known in the art, and are described in, e.g., Metzker, M. (2010) Nature Biotechnology Reviews 11:31-46, which is incorporated herein by reference. Other examples of sequencing methods suitable for use when implementing the methods and systems disclosed herein are described in, e.g., International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2012/092426. In some instances, the sequencing may comprise, for example, whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing, targeted sequencing, or direct sequencing. In some instances, sequencing may be performed using, e.g., Sanger sequencing. In some instances, the sequencing may comprise a paired-end sequencing technique that allows both ends of a fragment to be sequenced and generates high-quality, alignable sequence data for detection of, e.g., genomic rearrangements, repetitive sequence elements, gene fusions, and novel transcripts. [0167] The disclosed methods and systems may be implemented using sequencing platforms such as the Roche 454, Illumina Solexa, ABI-SOLiD, ION Torrent, Complete Genomics, Pacific Bioscience, Helicos, and/or the Polonator platform. In some instances, sequencing may comprise Illumina MiSeq sequencing. In some instances, sequencing may comprise Illumina HiSeq sequencing. In some instances, sequencing may comprise Illumina NovaSeq sequencing. Optimized methods for sequencing a large number of target genomic loci in nucleic acids extracted from a sample are described in more detail in, e.g., International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2020/236941, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. [0168] In certain instances, the disclosed methods comprise one or more of the steps of: (a) acquiring a library comprising a plurality of normal and/or tumor nucleic acid molecules from a sample; (b) simultaneously or sequentially contacting the library with one, two, three, four, five, or more than five pluralities of target capture reagents under conditions that allow hybridization of the target capture reagents to the target nucleic acid molecules, thereby providing a selected set of captured normal and/or tumor nucleic acid molecules (z.e., a library catch); (c) separating the selected subset of the nucleic acid molecules (e.g., the library catch) from the hybridization mixture, e.g., by contacting the hybridization mixture with a binding entity that allows for separation of the target capture reagent/nucleic acid molecule hybrids from the hybridization mixture, (d) sequencing the library catch to acquiring a plurality of reads (e.g., sequence reads) that overlap one or more subject intervals (e.g., one or more target sequences) from said library catch that may comprise a mutation (or alteration), e.g., a variant sequence comprising a somatic mutation or germline mutation; (e) aligning said sequence reads using an alignment method as described elsewhere herein; and/or (f) assigning a nucleotide value for a nucleotide position in the subject interval (e.g., calling a mutation using, e.g., a Bayesian method or other method described herein) from one or more sequence reads of the plurality. [0169] In some instances, acquiring sequence reads for one or more subject intervals may comprise sequencing at least 1, at least 5, at least 10, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 100, at least 150, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, at least 350, at least 400, at least 450, at least 500, at least 550, at least 600, at least 650, at least 700, at least 750, at least 800, at least 850, at least 900, at least 950, at least 1,000, at least 1,250, at least 1,500, at least 1,750, at least 2,000, at least 2,250, at least 2,500, at least 2,750, at least 3,000, at least 3,500, at least 4,000, at least 4,500, or at least 5,000 loci, e.g., genomic loci, gene loci, microsatellite loci, etc. In some instances, acquiring a sequence read for one or more subject intervals may comprise sequencing a subject interval for any number of loci within the range described in this paragraph, e.g., for at least 2,850 gene loci. [0170] In some instances, acquiring a sequence read for one or more subject intervals comprises sequencing a subject interval with a sequencing method that provides a sequence read length (or average sequence read length) of at least 20 bases, at least 30 bases, at least 40 bases, at least 50 bases, at least 60 bases, at least 70 bases, at least 80 bases, at least 90 bases, at least 100 bases, at least 120 bases, at least 140 bases, at least 160 bases, at least 180 bases, at least 200 bases, at least 220 bases, at least 240 bases, at least 260 bases, at least 280 bases, at least 300 bases, at least 320 bases, at least 340 bases, at least 360 bases, at least 380 bases, or at least 400 bases. In some instances, acquiring a sequence read for the one or more subject intervals may comprise sequencing a subject interval with a sequencing method that provides a sequence read length (or average sequence read length) of any number of bases within the range described in this paragraph, e.g., a sequence read length (or average sequence read length) of 56 bases. [0171] In some instances, acquiring a sequence read for one or more subject intervals may comprise sequencing with at least lOOx or more coverage (or depth) on average. In some instances, acquiring a sequence read for one or more subject intervals may comprise sequencing with at least lOOx, at least 150x, at least 200x, at least 250x, at least 500x, at least 750x, at least l,000x, at least 1,500 x, at least 2,000x, at least 2,500x, at least 3,000x, at least 3,500x, at least 4,000x, at least 4,500x, at least 5,000x, at least 5,500x, or at least 6,000x or more coverage (or depth) on average. In some instances, acquiring a sequence read for one or more subject intervals may comprise sequencing with an average coverage (or depth) having any value within the range of values described in this paragraph, e.g., at least 160x. [0172] In some instances, acquiring a read for the one or more subject intervals comprises sequencing with an average sequencing depth having any value ranging from at least lOOx to at least 6,000x for greater than about 90%, 92%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% of the gene loci sequenced. For example, in some instances acquiring a read for the subject interval comprises sequencing with an average sequencing depth of at least 125x for at least 99% of the gene loci sequenced. As another example, in some instances acquiring a read for the subject interval comprises sequencing with an average sequencing depth of at least 4,100x for at least 95% of the gene loci sequenced. [0173] In some instances, the relative abundance of a nucleic acid species in the library can be estimated by counting the relative number of occurrences of their cognate sequences (e.g., the number of sequence reads for a given cognate sequence) in the data generated by the sequencing experiment. [0174] In some instances, the disclosed methods and systems provide nucleotide sequences for a set of subject intervals (e.g., gene loci), as described herein. In certain instances, the sequences are provided without using a method that includes a matched normal control (e.g., a wild-type control) and/or a matched tumor control (e.g., primary versus metastatic). [0175] In some instances, the level of sequencing depth as used herein (e.g., an X-fold level of sequencing depth) refers to the number of reads (e.g., unique reads) obtained after detection and removal of duplicate reads (e.g., PCR duplicate reads). In other instances, duplicate reads are evaluated, e.g., to support detection of copy number alteration (CNAs). Alignment [0176] Alignment is the process of matching a read with a location, e.g., a genomic location or locus. In some instances, NGS reads may be aligned to a known reference sequence (e.g., a wild-type sequence). In some instances, NGS reads may be assembled de novo. Methods of sequence alignment for NGS reads are described in, e.g., Trapnell, C. and Salzberg, S.L. Nature Biotech., 2009, 27:455-457. Examples of de novo sequence assemblies are described in, e.g., Warren R., et al., Bioinformatics, 2007, 23:500-501; Butler, J. et al., Genome Res., 2008, 18:810-820; and Zerbino, D.R. and Birney, E., Genome Res., 2008, 18:821-829. Optimization of sequence alignment is described in the art, e.g., as set out in International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2012/092426. Additional description of sequence alignment methods is provided in, e.g., International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2020/236941, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. [0177] Misalignment (e.g., the placement of base-pairs from a short read at incorrect locations in the genome), e.g., misalignment of reads due to sequence context (e.g., the presence of repetitive sequence) around an actual cancer mutation can lead to reduction in sensitivity of mutation detection, can lead to a reduction in sensitivity of mutation detection, as reads for the alternate allele may be shifted off the histogram peak of alternate allele reads. Other examples of sequence context that may cause misalignment include short-tandem repeats, interspersed repeats, low complexity regions, insertions - deletions (indels), and paralogs. If the problematic sequence context occurs where no actual mutation is present, misalignment may introduce artifactual reads of “mutated” alleles by placing reads of actual reference genome base sequences at the wrong location. Because mutation-calling algorithms for multigene analysis should be sensitive to even low-abundance mutations, sequence misalignments may increase false positive discovery rates and/or reduce specificity. [0178] In some instances, the methods and systems disclosed herein may integrate the use of multiple, individually-tuned, alignment methods or algorithms to optimize base-calling performance in sequencing methods, particularly in methods that rely on massively parallel sequencing (MPS) of a large number of diverse genetic events at a large number of diverse genomic loci. In some instances, the disclosed methods and systems may comprise the use of one or more global alignment algorithms. In some instances, the disclosed methods and systems may comprise the use of one or more local alignment algorithms. Examples of alignment algorithms that may be used include, but are not limited to, the Burrows-Wheeler Alignment (BWA) software bundle (see, e.g., Li, et al. (2009), “Fast and Accurate Short Read Alignment with Burrows-Wheeler Transform”, Bioinformatics 25: 1754-60; Li, et al. (2010), Fast and Accurate Long-Read Alignment with Burrows-Wheeler Transform”, Bioinformatics epub. PMID: 20080505), the Smith- Waterman algorithm (see, e.g., Smith, et al. (1981), 'Identification of Common Molecular Subsequences', J. Molecular Biology 147(1): 195-197), the Striped Smith-Waterman algorithm (see, e.g., Farrar (2007), “Striped Smith-Waterman Speeds Database Searches Six Times Over Other SIMD Implementations”, Bioinformatics 23(2): 156-161), the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm (Needleman, et al. (1970) 'A General Method Applicable to the Search for Similarities in the Amino Acid Sequence of Two Proteins', J. Molecular Biology 48(3):443-53), or any combination thereof. [0179] In some instances, the methods and systems disclosed herein may also comprise the use of a sequence assembly algorithm, e.g., the Arachne sequence assembly algorithm (see, e.g., Batzoglou, et al. (2002), “ARACHNE: A Whole-Genome Shotgun Assembler”, Genome Res. 12:177-189). [0180] In some instances, the alignment method used to analyze sequence reads is not individually customized or tuned for detection of different variants (e.g., point mutations, insertions, deletions, and the like) at different genomic loci. In some instances, different alignment methods are used to analyze reads that are individually customized or tuned for detection of at least a subset of the different variants detected at different genomic loci. In some instances, different alignment methods are used to analyze reads that are individually customized or tuned to detect each different variant at different genomic loci. In some instances, tuning can be a function of one or more of: (i) the genetic locus (e.g., gene loci, micro satellite locus, or other subject interval) being sequenced, (ii) the tumor type associated with the sample, (iii) the variant being sequenced, or (iv) a characteristic of the sample or the subject. The selection or use of alignment conditions that are individually tuned to a number of specific subject intervals to be sequenced allows optimization of speed, sensitivity, and specificity. The method is particularly effective when the alignment of reads for a relatively large number of diverse subject intervals are optimized. [0181] In some instances, the method includes the use of an alignment method optimized for rearrangements in combination with other alignment methods optimized for subject intervals not associated with rearrangements. [0182] In some instances, the methods disclosed herein further comprise selecting or using an alignment method for analyzing, e.g., aligning, a sequence read, wherein said alignment method is a function of, is selected responsive to, or is optimized for, one or more of: (i) tumor type, e.g., the tumor type in the sample; (ii) the location (e.g., a gene locus) of the subject interval being sequenced; (iii) the type of variant (e.g., a point mutation, insertion, deletion, substitution, copy number variation (CNV), rearrangement, or fusion) in the subject interval being sequenced; (iv) the site (e.g., nucleotide position) being analyzed; (v) the type of sample (e.g., a sample described herein); and/or (vi) adjacent sequence(s) in or near the subject interval being evaluated (e.g., according to the expected propensity thereof for misalignment of the subject interval due to, e.g., the presence of repeated sequences in or near the subject interval). [0183] In some instances, the methods disclosed herein allow for the rapid and efficient alignment of troublesome reads, e.g., a read having a rearrangement. Thus, in some instances where a read for a subject interval comprises a nucleotide position with a rearrangement, e.g., a translocation, the method can comprise using an alignment method that is appropriately tuned and that includes: (i) selecting a rearrangement reference sequence for alignment with a read, wherein said rearrangement reference sequence aligns with a rearrangement (in some instances, the reference sequence is not identical to the genomic rearrangement); and (ii) comparing, e.g., aligning, a read with said rearrangement reference sequence. [0184] In some instances, alternative methods may be used to align troublesome reads. These methods are particularly effective when the alignment of reads for a relatively large number of diverse subject intervals is optimized. By way of example, a method of analyzing a sample can comprise: (i) performing a comparison (e.g., an alignment comparison) of a read using a first set of parameters (e.g., using a first mapping algorithm, or by comparison with a first reference sequence), and determining if said read meets a first alignment criterion (e.g., the read can be aligned with said first reference sequence, e.g., with less than a specific number of mismatches); (ii) if said read fails to meet the first alignment criterion, performing a second alignment comparison using a second set of parameters, (e.g., using a second mapping algorithm, or by comparison with a second reference sequence); and (iii) optionally, determining if said read meets said second criterion (e.g., the read can be aligned with said second reference sequence, e.g., with less than a specific number of mismatches), wherein said second set of parameters comprises use of, e.g., said second reference sequence, which, compared with said first set of parameters, is more likely to result in an alignment with a read for a variant (e.g., a rearrangement, insertion, deletion, or translocation). [0185] In some instances, the alignment of sequence reads in the disclosed methods may be combined with a mutation calling method as described elsewhere herein. As discussed herein, reduced sensitivity for detecting actual mutations may be addressed by evaluating the quality of alignments (manually or in an automated fashion) around expected mutation sites in the genes or genomic loci (e.g., gene loci) being analyzed. In some instances, the sites to be evaluated can be obtained from databases of the human genome (e.g., the HG19 human reference genome) or cancer mutations (e.g., COSMIC). Regions that are identified as problematic can be remedied with the use of an algorithm selected to give better performance in the relevant sequence context, e.g., by alignment optimization (or re-alignment) using slower, but more accurate alignment algorithms such as Smith-Waterman alignment. In cases where general alignment algorithms cannot remedy the problem, customized alignment approaches may be created by, e.g., adjustment of maximum difference mismatch penalty parameters for genes with a high likelihood of containing substitutions; adjusting specific mismatch penalty parameters based on specific mutation types that are common in certain tumor types (e.g. CaT in melanoma); or adjusting specific mismatch penalty parameters based on specific mutation types that are common in certain sample types (e.g. substitutions that are common in FFPE). [0186] Reduced specificity (increased false positive rate) in the evaluated subject intervals due to misalignment can be assessed by manual or automated examination of all mutation calls in the sequencing data. Those regions found to be prone to spurious mutation calls due to misalignment can be subjected to alignment remedies as discussed above. In cases where no algorithmic remedy is found possible, “mutations” from the problem regions can be classified or screened out from the panel of targeted loci. Mutation calling [0187] Base calling refers to the raw output of a sequencing device, e.g., the determined sequence of nucleotides in an oligonucleotide molecule. Mutation calling refers to the process of selecting a nucleotide value, e.g., A, G, T, or C, for a given nucleotide position being sequenced. Typically, the sequence reads (or base calling) for a position will provide more than one value, e.g., some reads will indicate a T and some will indicate a G. Mutation calling is the process of assigning a correct nucleotide value, e.g., one of those values, to the sequence. Although it is referred to as “mutation” calling, it can be applied to assign a nucleotide value to any nucleotide position, e.g., positions corresponding to mutant alleles, wild-type alleles, alleles that have not been characterized as either mutant or wild-type, or to positions not characterized by variability. [0188] In some instances, the disclosed methods may comprise the use of customized or tuned mutation calling algorithms or parameters thereof to optimize performance when applied to sequencing data, particularly in methods that rely on massively parallel sequencing (MPS) of a large number of diverse genetic events at a large number of diverse genomic loci (e.g., gene loci, micro satellite regions, etc.) in samples, e.g., samples from a subject having cancer. Optimization of mutation calling is described in the art, e.g., as set out in International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2012/092426. [0189] Methods for mutation calling can include one or more of the following: making independent calls based on the information at each position in the reference sequence (e.g., examining the sequence reads; examining the base calls and quality scores; calculating the probability of observed bases and quality scores given a potential genotype; and assigning genotypes (e.g., using Bayes’ rule)); removing false positives (e.g., using depth thresholds to reject SNPs with read depth much lower or higher than expected; local realignment to remove false positives due to small indels); and performing linkage disequilibrium (LD)/imputation- based analysis to refine the calls. [0190] Equations used to calculate the genotype likelihood associated with a specific genotype and position are described in, e.g., Li, H. and Durbin, R. Bioinformatics, 2010; 26(5): 589-95. The prior expectation for a particular mutation in a certain cancer type can be used when evaluating samples from that cancer type. Such likelihood can be derived from public databases of cancer mutations, e.g., Catalogue of Somatic Mutation in Cancer (COSMIC), HGMD (Human Gene Mutation Database), The SNP Consortium, Breast Cancer Mutation Data Base (BIC), and Breast Cancer Gene Database (BCGD). [0191] Examples of LD/imputation based analysis are described in, e.g., Browning, B.L. and Yu, Z. Am. J. Hum. Genet. 2009, 85(6):847-61. Examples of low-coverage SNP calling methods are described in, e.g., Li, Y., et al., Annu. Rev. Genomics Hum. Genet. 2009, 10:387-406. [0192] After alignment, detection of substitutions can be performed using a mutation calling method (e.g., a Bayesian mutation calling method) which is applied to each base in each of the subject intervals, e.g., exons of a gene or other locus to be evaluated, where presence of alternate alleles is observed. This method will compare the probability of observing the read data in the presence of a mutation with the probability of observing the read data in the presence of basecalling error alone. Mutations can be called if this comparison is sufficiently strongly supportive of the presence of a mutation. [0193] An advantage of a Bayesian mutation detection approach is that the comparison of the probability of the presence of a mutation with the probability of base-calling error alone can be weighted by a prior expectation of the presence of a mutation at the site. If some reads of an alternate allele are observed at a frequently mutated site for the given cancer type, then presence of a mutation may be confidently called even if the amount of evidence of mutation does not meet the usual thresholds. This flexibility can then be used to increase detection sensitivity for even rarer mutations/lower purity samples, or to make the test more robust to decreases in read coverage. The likelihood of a random base-pair in the genome being mutated in cancer is ~le-6. The likelihood of specific mutations occurring at many sites in, for example, a typical multigenic cancer genome panel can be orders of magnitude higher. These likelihoods can be derived from public databases of cancer mutations (e.g., COSMIC). [0194] Indel calling is a process of finding bases in the sequencing data that differ from the reference sequence by insertion or deletion, typically including an associated confidence score or statistical evidence metric. Methods of indel calling can include the steps of identifying candidate indels, calculating genotype likelihood through local re-alignment, and performing LD-based genotype inference and calling. Typically, a Bayesian approach is used to obtain potential indel candidates, and then these candidates are tested together with the reference sequence in a Bayesian framework. [0195] Algorithms to generate candidate indels are described in, e.g., McKenna, A., et al., Genome Res. 2010; 20(9): 1297-303; Ye, K., et al., Bioinformatics, 2009; 25(21):2865-71; Lunter, G., and Goodson, M., Genome Res. 2011; 21(6):936-9; and Li, H., et al. (2009), Bioinformatics 25(16):2078-9. [0196] Methods for generating indel calls and individual-level genotype likelihoods include, e.g., the Dindel algorithm (Albers, C.A., et al., Genome Res. 2011 ;21 (6):961-73). For example, the Bayesian EM algorithm can be used to analyze the reads, make initial indel calls, and generate genotype likelihoods for each candidate indel, followed by imputation of genotypes using, e.g., QCALL (Le S.Q. and Durbin R. Genome Res. 2011 ;21(6):952-60). Parameters, such as prior expectations of observing the indel can be adjusted e.g., increased or decreased), based on the size or location of the indels. [0197] Methods have been developed that address limited deviations from allele frequencies of 50% or 100% for the analysis of cancer DNA. (see, e.g., SNVMix -Bioinformatics. 2010 March 15; 26(6): 730-736.) Methods disclosed herein, however, allow consideration of the possibility of the presence of a mutant allele at frequencies (or allele fractions) ranging from 1% to 100% (i.e., allele fractions ranging from 0.01 to 1.0), and especially at levels lower than 50%. This approach is particularly important for the detection of mutations in, for example, low-purity FFPE samples of natural (multi-clonal) tumor DNA. [0198] In some instances, the mutation calling method used to analyze sequence reads is not individually customized or fine-tuned for detection of different mutations at different genomic loci. In some instances, different mutation calling methods are used that are individually customized or fine-tuned for at least a subset of the different mutations detected at different genomic loci. In some instances, different mutation calling methods are used that are individually customized or fine-tuned for each different mutant detected at each different genomic loci. The customization or tuning can be based on one or more of the factors described herein, e.g., the type of cancer in a sample, the gene or locus in which the subject interval to be sequenced is located, or the variant to be sequenced. This selection or use of mutation calling methods individually customized or fine-tuned for a number of subject intervals to be sequenced allows for optimization of speed, sensitivity and specificity of mutation calling. [0199] In some instances, a nucleotide value is assigned for a nucleotide position in each of X unique subject intervals using a unique mutation calling method, and X is at least 2, at least 3, at least 4, at least 5, at least 10, at least 15, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 90, at least 100, at least 200, at least 300, at least 400, at least 500, at least 1000, at least 1500, at least 2000, at least 2500, at least 3000, at least 3500, at least 4000, at least 4500, at least 5000, or greater. The calling methods can differ, and thereby be unique, e.g., by relying on different Bayesian prior values. [0200] In some instances, assigning said nucleotide value is a function of a value which is or represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing a read showing a variant, e.g., a mutation, at said nucleotide position in a tumor of type. [0201] In some instances, the method comprises assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) for at least 10, 20, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, or 1,000 nucleotide positions, wherein each assignment is a function of a unique value (as opposed to the value for the other assignments) which is or represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing a read showing a variant, e.g., a mutation, at said nucleotide position in a tumor of type. [0202] In some instances, assigning said nucleotide value is a function of a set of values which represent the probabilities of observing a read showing said variant at said nucleotide position if the variant is present in the sample at a specified frequency (e.g., 1%, 5%, 10%, etc.) and/or if the variant is absent (e.g., observed in the reads due to base-calling error alone). [0203] In some instances, the mutation calling methods described herein can include the following: (a) acquiring, for a nucleotide position in each of said X subject intervals: (i) a first value which is or represents the prior (e.g., literature) expectation of observing a read showing a variant, e.g., a mutation, at said nucleotide position in a tumor of type X; and (ii) a second set of values which represent the probabilities of observing a read showing said variant at said nucleotide position if the variant is present in the sample at a frequency (e.g., 1%, 5%, 10%, etc.) and/or if the variant is absent (e.g., observed in the reads due to base-calling error alone); and (b) responsive to said values, assigning a nucleotide value (e.g., calling a mutation) from said reads for each of said nucleotide positions by weighing, e.g., by a Bayesian method described herein, the comparison among the values in the second set using the first value (e.g., computing the posterior probability of the presence of a mutation), thereby analyzing said sample. [0204] Additional description of exemplary nucleic acid sequencing methods, mutation calling methods, and methods for analysis of genetic variants is provided in, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 9,340,830, U.S. Patent No. 9,792,403, U.S. Patent No. 11,136,619, U.S. Patent No. 11,118,213, and International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2020/236941, the entire contents of each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Systems [0205] Also disclosed herein are systems designed to implement any of the disclosed methods for identifying samples from a subject for which tumor mutational burden may be underestimated, or for more accurately determining TMB status or a TMB value for a sample from a subject. [0206] The systems may comprise, e.g., one or more processors, and a memory unit communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and output a prediction of whether or not a determination of the TMB for sample is likely to be an underestimated value. [0207] In some instances, the systems may comprise: one or more processors, and a memory unit communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and output a classification of the TMB status of the sample. [0208] In some instances, the systems may comprise: one or more processors, and a memory unit communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and output a determination of the TMB of the sample. [0209] In some instances, the disclosed systems may further comprise a sequencer, e.g., a next generation sequencer (also referred to as a massively parallel sequencer). Examples of next generation (or massively parallel) sequencing platforms include, but are not limited to, Roche/454’s Genome Sequencer (GS) FLX system, Illumina/Solexa’ s Genome Analyzer (GA), Illumina’s HiSeq® 2500, HiSeq® 3000, HiSeq® 4000 and NovaSeq® 6000 sequencing systems, Life/APG’s Support Oligonucleotide Ligation Detection (SOLiD) system, Polonator’s G.007 system, Helicos BioSciences’ HeliScope Gene Sequencing system, ThermoFisher Scientific’s Ion Torrent Genexus system, or Pacific Biosciences’ PacBio® RS system. [0210] In some instances, the disclosed systems may be used for determining TMB status or for determining a TMB value for any of a variety of samples as described herein e.g., a tissue sample, biopsy sample, hematological sample, or liquid biopsy sample derived from the subject). [0211] In some instances, the plurality of gene loci (or genomic loci) for which sequencing data is processed to identify variants and determine a tumor mutational burden for the sample may comprise at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 200, 400, 600, 800, 1000, 2000, or more than 2000 gene loci (or genomic loci). [0212] In some instance, the nucleic acid sequence data is acquired using a next generation sequencing technique (also referred to as a massively parallel sequencing technique) having a read-length of less than 400 bases, less than 300 bases, less than 200 bases, less than 150 bases, less than 100 bases, less than 90 bases, less than 80 bases, less than 70 bases, less than 60 bases, less than 50 bases, less than 40 bases, or less than 30 bases. [0213] In some instances, a determination of a TMB status or a TMB value for a sample may be used to select, initiate, adjust, or terminate a treatment for cancer in the subject (e.g., a patient) from which the sample was derived, as described elsewhere herein. [0214] In some instances, the disclosed systems may further comprise sample processing and library preparation workstations, microplate-handling robotics, fluid dispensing systems, temperature control modules, environmental control chambers, additional data storage modules, data communication modules (e.g., Bluetooth®, WiFi, intranet, or internet communication hardware and associated software), display modules, one or more local and/or cloud-based software packages (e.g., instrument / system control software packages, sequencing data analysis software packages), etc., or any combination thereof. In some instances, the systems may comprise, or be part of, a computer system or computer network as described elsewhere herein. Machine learning [0215] Any of a variety of machine learning approaches & algorithms (where a machine learning model, as referred to herein, comprises a trained machine learning algorithm) may be used in implementing the disclosed methods. For example, the machine learning model may comprise a supervised learning model (z.e., a model trained using labeled sets of training data), an unsupervised learning model (z.e., a model trained using unlabeled sets of training data), a semisupervised learning model (z.e., a model trained using a combination of labeled and unlabeled training data), a self- supervised learning model, or any combination thereof. In some examples, the machine learning model can comprise a deep learning model (z.e., a model comprising many layers of coupled 'nodes' that may be trained in a supervised, unsupervised, or semi-supervised manner). [0216] In some instances, one or more machine learning models (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more than 10 machine learning models), or a combination thereof, may be utilized to implement the disclosed methods. [0217] In some instances, the one or more machine learning models may comprise statistical methods for analyzing data. The machine learning models may be used for classification and/or regression of data. The machine learning models can include, for example, neural networks, support vector machines, decision trees, ensemble learning (e.g., bagging-based learning, such as random forest, and/or boosting-based learning), k-nearest neighbors algorithms, linear regression-based models, and/or logistic regression-based models. The machine learning models can comprise regularization, such as LI regularization and/or L2 regularization. The machine learning models can include the use of dimensionality reduction techniques (e.g., principal component analysis, matrix factorization techniques, and/or autoencoders) and/or clustering techniques (e.g., hierarchical clustering, k-means clustering, distribution-based clustering, such as Gaussian mixture models, or density -based clustering, such as DBSCAN or OPTICS). The one or more machine learning models can comprise solving, e.g., optimizing, an objective function over multiple iterations based on a training data set. The iterative solving approach can be used even when the machine learning model comprises a model for which there exists a closed- form solution (e.g., linear regression). [0218] In some instances, the machine learning models can comprise artificial neural networks (ANNs), e.g., deep learning models. For example, the one or more machine learning models/algorithms used for implementing the disclosed methods may include an ANN which can comprise any of a variety of computational motifs / architectures known to those of skill in the art, including, but not limited to, feedforward connections (e.g., skip connections), recurrent connections, fully connected layers, convolutional layers, and/or pooling functions (e.g., attention, including self-attention). The artificial neural networks can comprise differentiable non-linear functions trained by backpropagation. [0219] Artificial neural networks, e.g., deep learning models, generally comprise an interconnected group of nodes organized into multiple layers of nodes. For example, the ANN architecture may comprise at least an input layer, one or more hidden layers (z.e., intermediate layers), and an output layer. The ANN or deep learning model may comprise any total number of layers (e.g., 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, or more than 20 layers in total), and any number of hidden layers (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, or more than 20 hidden layers), where the hidden layers function as trainable feature extractors that allow mapping of a set of input data to a preferred output value or set of output values. Each layer of the neural network comprises a plurality of nodes (e.g., at least 10, 25, 50, 75 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, 6000, 7000, 8000, 9000, 10,000, or more than 10,000 nodes). A node receives input data (e.g., genomic feature data (such as variant sequence data, methylation status data, etc.), non-genomic feature data (e.g., digital pathology image feature data), or other types of input data (e.g., patient- specific clinical data)) that comes either directly from one or more input data nodes or from the output of one or more nodes in previous layers, and performs a specific operation, e.g., a summation operation. In some cases, a connection from an input to a node is associated with a weight (or weighting factor). In some cases, the node may, for example, sum up the products of all pairs of inputs, Xi, and their associated weights, Wi. In some cases, the weighted sum is offset with a bias, b. In some cases, the output of a node may be gated using a threshold or activation function, f, where f may be a linear or non-linear function. The activation function may be, for example, a rectified linear unit (ReLU) activation function or other function such as a saturating hyperbolic tangent, identity, binary step, logistic, arcTan, softsign, parameteric rectified linear unit, exponential linear unit, softPlus, bent identity, softExponential, Sinusoid, Sine, Gaussian, or sigmoid function, or any combination thereof. [0220] The weighting factors, bias values, and threshold values, or other computational parameters of the neural network (or other machine learning architecture), can be 'taught' or 'learned' in a training phase using one or more sets of training data (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or more than 5 sets of training data) and a specified training approach configured to solve, e.g., minimize, a loss function. For example, the adjustable parameters for an ANN (e.g., deep learning model) may be determined based on input data from a training data set using an iterative solver (such as a gradient-based method, e.g., backpropagation), so that the output value(s) that the ANN computes (e.g., a classification of a sample or a prediction of a disease outcome) are consistent with the examples included in the training data set. The training of the model (z.e., determination of the adjustable parameters of the model using an iterative solver) may or may not be performed using the same hardware as that used for deployment of the trained model. [0221] In some instances, the disclosed methods may comprise retraining any of the machine learning models (e.g., iteratively retraining a previously trained model using one or more training data sets that differ from those used to train the model initially). In some instances, retraining the machine learning model may comprise using a continuous, e.g., online, machine learning model, i.e., where the model is periodically or continuously updated or retrained based on new training data. The new training data may be provided by, e.g., a single deployed local operational system, a plurality of deployed local operational systems, or a plurality of deployed, geographically-distributed operational systems. In some instances, the disclosed methods may employ, for example, pre-trained ANNs, and the pre-trained ANNs can be fine-tuned according to an additional dataset that is inputted into the pre-trained ANN. Computer systems and networks [0222] FIG. 2 illustrates an example of a computing device or system in accordance with one embodiment. Device 200 can be a host computer connected to a network. Device 200 can be a client computer or a server. As shown in FIG. 2, device 200 can be any suitable type of microprocessor-based device, such as a personal computer, workstation, server or handheld computing device (portable electronic device) such as a phone or tablet. The device can include, for example, one or more processor(s) 210, input devices 220, output devices 230, memory or storage devices 240, communication devices 260, and nucleic acid sequencers 270. Software 250 residing in memory or storage device 240 may comprise, e.g., an operating system as well as software for executing the methods described herein. Input device 220 and output device 230 can generally correspond to those described herein, and can either be connectable or integrated with the computer. [0223] Input device 220 can be any suitable device that provides input, such as a touch screen, keyboard or keypad, mouse, or voice-recognition device. Output device 230 can be any suitable device that provides output, such as a touch screen, haptics device, or speaker. [0224] Storage 240 can be any suitable device that provides storage (e.g., an electrical, magnetic or optical memory including a RAM (volatile and non-volatile), cache, hard drive, or removable storage disk). Communication device 260 can include any suitable device capable of transmitting and receiving signals over a network, such as a network interface chip or device. The components of the computer can be connected in any suitable manner, such as via a wired media (e.g., a physical system bus 280, Ethernet connection, or any other wire transfer technology) or wirelessly (e.g., Bluetooth®, Wi-Fi®, or any other wireless technology). [0225] Software module 250, which can be stored as executable instructions in storage 240 and executed by processor(s) 210, can include, for example, an operating system and/or the processes that embody the functionality of the methods of the present disclosure (e.g., as embodied in the devices as described herein). [0226] Software module 250 can also be stored and/or transported within any non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as those described herein, that can fetch instructions associated with the software from the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this disclosure, a computer-readable storage medium can be any medium, such as storage 240, that can contain or store processes for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. Examples of computer- readable storage media may include memory units like hard drives, flash drives and distribute modules that operate as a single functional unit. Also, various processes described herein may be embodied as modules configured to operate in accordance with the embodiments and techniques described above. Further, while processes may be shown and/or described separately, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the above processes may be routines or modules within other processes. [0227] Software module 250 can also be propagated within any transport medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device, such as those described above, that can fetch instructions associated with the software from the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this disclosure, a transport medium can be any medium that can communicate, propagate or transport programming for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system, apparatus, or device. The transport readable medium can include, but is not limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic or infrared wired or wireless propagation medium. [0228] Device 200 may be connected to a network (e.g., network 304, as shown in FIG. 3 and/or described below), which can be any suitable type of interconnected communication system. The network can implement any suitable communications protocol and can be secured by any suitable security protocol. The network can comprise network links of any suitable arrangement that can implement the transmission and reception of network signals, such as wireless network connections, T1 or T3 lines, cable networks, DSL, or telephone lines. [0229] Device 200 can be implemented using any operating system, e.g., an operating system suitable for operating on the network. Software module 250 can be written in any suitable programming language, such as C, C++, Java or Python. In various embodiments, application software embodying the functionality of the present disclosure can be deployed in different configurations, such as in a client/server arrangement or through a Web browser as a Web-based application or Web service, for example. In some embodiments, the operating system is executed by one or more processors, e.g., processor(s) 210. [0230] Device 200 can further include a sequencer 270, which can be any suitable nucleic acid sequencing instrument. [0231] FIG. 3 illustrates an example of a computing system in accordance with one embodiment. In system 300, device 200 e.g., as described above and illustrated in FIG. 2) is connected to network 304, which is also connected to device 306. In some embodiments, device 306 is a sequencer. Exemplary sequencers can include, without limitation, Roche/454’s Genome Sequencer (GS) FLX System, Illumina/Solexa’ s Genome Analyzer (GA), Illumina’s HiSeq® 2500, HiSeq® 3000, HiSeq® 4000 and NovaSeq® 6000 Sequencing Systems, Life/APG’s Support Oligonucleotide Ligation Detection (SOLiD) system, Polonator’s G.007 system, Helicos BioSciences’ HeliScope Gene Sequencing system, or Pacific Biosciences’ PacBio® RS system. [0232] Devices 200 and 306 may communicate, e.g., using suitable communication interfaces via network 304, such as a Local Area Network (LAN), Virtual Private Network (VPN), or the Internet. In some embodiments, network 304 can be, for example, the Internet, an intranet, a virtual private network, a cloud network, a wired network, or a wireless network. Devices 200 and 306 may communicate, in part or in whole, via wireless or hardwired communications, such as Ethernet, IEEE 802.1 lb wireless, or the like. Additionally, devices 200 and 306 may communicate, e.g., using suitable communication interfaces, via a second network, such as a mobile/cellular network. Communication between devices 200 and 306 may further include or communicate with various servers such as a mail server, mobile server, media server, telephone server, and the like. In some embodiments, Devices 200 and 306 can communicate directly (instead of, or in addition to, communicating via network 304), e.g., via wireless or hardwired communications, such as Ethernet, IEEE 802.11b wireless, or the like. In some embodiments, devices 200 and 306 communicate via communications 308, which can be a direct connection or can occur via a network (e.g., network 304). [0233] One or all of devices 200 and 306 generally include logic (e.g., http web server logic) or are programmed to format data, accessed from local or remote databases or other sources of data and content, for providing and/or receiving information via network 1004 according to various examples described herein. EXAMPLES [0234] The following examples are included for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Example 1 - POLE-specific variant classification for identifying patients who may benefit from immunotherapy [0235] Background: Pathogenic POLE exonuclease domain mutations (pPOLE mutations) undermine mismatch error correction during DNA replication, thereby causing somatic ultramutation which is predictive of patient response to immunotherapy. We examined the pancancer landscape of POLE mutations and applied a POLE-specific variant classification model to identify cancer patients who may benefit from immunotherapy. [0236] Materials and Methods: Comprehensive genomic profiling of DNA extracted from cancer patient samples was performed during routine clinical care. Mutational signature calling was performed via decomposition using the 96-feature single-base substitution COSMIC reference signatures. A POLE-specific classification model encompassing tumor mutational burden (TMB), presence of POLE signature, absence of other signatures, germline frequency, and other features was applied to identify pPOLE mutations causative of ultramutation. [0237] Results: POLE mutation status was evaluated in 458,437 samples (425,520 tissue biopsies [TB] and 32,917 liquid biopsies [LB]). One or more POLE alterations, including pathogenic alterations and variants of unknown significance (VUS), were detected in 3.8% of samples. 19,470 total alterations were identified, 84.8% of which were missense substitutions that were spread throughout the POLE gene as illustrated in FIG. 4A (plot of the number of samples containing a mutation at the specified position in the POLE gene) and FIG. 4B (plot of the number of distinct POLE mutation alleles at the specified position in the POLE gene). [0238] Variants associated with ultramutation and the POLE COSMIC signature were concentrated in the exonuclease domain (FIG. 4C; plot of median tumor mutational burden (TMB) of samples exhibiting a POLE mutation at the specified position in the POLE gene; mutational signatures are color coded as indicated). [0239] FIG. 4D provides a breakdown of the classification of POLE variants in this study. Of the 7,095 protein-altering POLE variants identified, 6,306 were not found in the Genome Aggregation Database (gnomAD; Broad Institute, Cambridge, MA). 2,444 of these mutations were found in TMB-High samples (median TMB 320 mutations/Mb), and 169 of the latter mutations were found in samples exhibiting the POLE signature as the dominant mutational signature. 23 of the mutations identified in samples exhibiting the POLE signature as the dominant mutational signature were not enriched in samples with a co-occurring more common pPOLE mutation. [0240] FIG. 4E illustrates the mapping of the 23 unique pathogenic variants identified in this study to the exonuclease domain of the POLE gene. The numbers indicated in the circles of varying size indicate the prevalence of specific pPOLE variants identified for liquid biopsy samples (upper) and tissue biopsy samples (lower). [0241] While unselected POLE variants were common in cancers that tend to have high median TMB (e.g., cutaneous malignancies), pPOLE were identified across cancer types (FIG. 5; plot of pPOLE prevalence (bars) and POLE prevalence (circles) versus cancer type), and were most frequent in endometrial carcinomas (EC) (1.4%) and colorectal carcinomas (CRC) (0.5%). The overall pPOLE rate was significantly lower in liquid (LB) than tissue (TB) (0.02% vs 0.17%, P<0.001) in the context of different clinical ordering patterns for EC (0.9% of LB cohort vs 3.1% of TB cohort; P<0.001) and CRC (7.5% of LB cohort vs 12.6% of TB cohort; P<0.001). [0242] POLE endonuclease deficiency-associated signatures (POLE, Sig 14) had the highest median TMB of any mutational process detected in tissue samples harboring a POLE mutation (either pPOLE or benign POLE [bPOLE]) (FIG. 6: violin plot of TMB versus mutational signature). In tissue samples pPOLE, the median TMB was two orders of magnitude higher than the median for all samples, as well as for samples with bPOLE (174.5 vs 3.5 and 10.0, respectively, P<0.0001) (FIG. 7: the four panels in this figure show (from left to right): TMB data (one dot per sample on x axis) for (i) tissue, pPOLE+, (ii) tissue, pPOLE-, (iii) liquid biopsy, pPOLE+, and (iv) liquid biopsy, pPOLE-). The trend of elevated TMB in tissue samples with pPOLE versus bPOLE extended to all cancer types with recurrent pPOLE (> 10 cases; P<0.0001 for all) (FIG. 8; violin plot of TMB versus cancer type). Median TMB and bTMB in pPOLE TB and LB samples, respectively, were comparable (174.5 vs 149.2). [0243] Classification based on single features was insufficient to define pPOLE (e.g., domainbased, TMB-based). Not all variants in the exonuclease domain were associated with high TMB (FIG. 9A; violin plot of TMB versus exonuclease domain variants). The median TMB for samples with pPOLE was 28.7-fold higher than in samples with a non-pathogenic POLE exonuclease domain mutation and no other signature detected (P<0.0001), underscoring that variant classification is important, even among exonuclease domain mutations. Though nearly all tumors with pPOLE had high TMB, this association was confounded when pPOLE VAE was low, especially in samples with low tumor purity (20/24 of tumors with pPOLE VAE <5%) (FIG. 9B; box plot of TMB versus pPOLE VAF indicating the minimum, first quartile, median, third quartile, and maximum TMB observed for the specified pPOLE VAF ranges). In tissue samples, the median TMB for samples with pPOLE VAF <5% was 3.75, compared to 188.8 for samples with pPOLE VAF >5%. [0244] pPOLE + MSI-H: 27.9% of samples with a pPOLE variant also had evidence of micro satellite instability (MSI). The incidence of concurrent pPOLE and MSI was highest in CNS tumors (82.8% of pPOLE+ samples) (FIG. 10; plot of the percentage of cases that exhibited both a pPOLE variant and an microsatellite instability (MSI)-high status for different cancer types). Combined pPOLE and MSI was associated with dramatically elevated TMB compared to other mutational processes, including MSI-H and pPOLE alone (median TMB of 378.4 for pPOLE + MSI-H, compared to 42.6 and 135.0 for bPOLE + MSI-H and pPOLE + MSS, respectively (P<0.0001 for both) (FIG. 11; violin plot of TMB versus different combinations of POLE variants and micro satellite instability (MSI) status). [0245] pPOLE tumors are enriched for passenger mutations (e.g., HRR mutations in EC). pPOLE + endometrial cancer samples had significantly higher gene-specific mutation rates (only known/likely pathogenic mutations included) compared to cases without pPOLE (FIG. 12; plot of p value versus odds ratio (OR) for different mutations, with prevalence indicated by symbol size). The most enriched genes were among the longer genes on the panel, suggesting stochastic mutations due to very high TMB. Delineating the biological significance of these mutations is critical, as a subset of alterations can be associated with response to targeted therapies (e.g., BRCA2 and PARP inhibitors). HRD Signature Score is a tissue CGP-based machine learning classifier that detects copy number features associated with homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) and outputs a score. Samples with BRCA mutations and no pPOLE mutation had elevated median HRD signature scores compared to much lower medians for samples with pPOLE, irrespective of BRCA status (P<0.0001 for both) (FIG. 13; violin plot of HRD signal score versus different combinations of pPOLE - BRCA variants). [0246] Application of the POLE phenotype- specific classification model successfully identified 35 unique pathogenic variants , many of which were VUS prior to this study. 653 samples harbored a pPOLE, more than half of which were either p.P286R (n=245) or p.V41 IL (n=179). pPOLE were found in 1.4% (199/13,688) of endometrial cancers (EC) and 0.5% (270/55,981) of colorectal cancers (CRC) and were rarer in a long tail of other malignancies. The overall pPOLE rate was significantly lower in LB than TB (0.02% vs 0.15%, P<0.001) in the context of different clinical ordering patterns for EC (0.9% of LB cohort vs 3.1% of TB cohort; P<0.001) and CRC (7.5% of LB cohort vs 12.6% of TB cohort; P<0.001). Median TB TMB for pPOLE+ samples was 174.5 mut/mb, compared to 3.5 for the cohort overall (P<0.001). Similarly in LB, median pPOLE+ bTMB was 165.6 vs 2.5 overall (P<0.001). MSLH or an MMR- associated signature was found in 17.5% of samples with pPOLE, most commonly in neurologic malignancies (82.8%). Median TMB of samples with both pPOLE and MMRD was 2.4-fold higher than those with pPOLE alone (378.4 vs 135.0; P<0.001). Notably, 3.1% of pPOLE+ cases had TMB<10, which was associated median pPOLE VAF of 3.5%, compared with 25.7% among pPOLE samples with TMB>10 (P<0.001). This pattern suggests that TMB is underestimated when tumor purity is near the limit of detection for the assay. [0247] Conclusions: A POLE phenotype- specific classification model was used to identify pathogenic variants. pPOLE variants were seen in both TB and LB across cancer types. pPOLE mutations were most common in endometrial and colon cancers, and were highly associated with ultramutation in all cancer types. pPOLE variant classification enabled identification of patients with low tumor content that have low detected TMB but are still likely to have ultramutation. Co-occurrence of pPOLE and MSI was common, and was associated with even higher TMB. Samples with pPOLE have many passenger mutations, including in genes that are associated with therapy selection, highlighting the need for cautious therapy selection based on coalterations in the setting of pPOLE. Because TMB can be underestimated when tumor purity is near the limit of detection for the assay, accurate detection and classification of pPOLE is critical for identifying patients who may benefit from immunotherapy. EXEMPLARY IMPLEMENTATIONS [0248] Exemplary implementations of the methods and systems described herein include: 1. A method comprising: providing a plurality of nucleic acid molecules obtained from a sample from a subject; ligating one or more adapters onto one or more nucleic acid molecules from the plurality of nucleic acid molecules; amplifying the one or more ligated nucleic acid molecules from the plurality of nucleic acid molecules; capturing amplified nucleic acid molecules from the amplified nucleic acid molecules; sequencing, by a sequencer, the captured nucleic acid molecules to obtain a plurality of sequence reads that represent the captured nucleic acid molecules; receiving, at one or more processors, sequence read data for the plurality of sequence reads; receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, based on the sequence read data; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. 2. The method of clause 1, wherein the variant data comprises short variant data. 3. The method of clause 1 or clause 2, wherein the variant data comprises genomic rearrangement data. 4. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 3, wherein the sample data further comprises mutational signature data. 5. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 4, wherein the sample data further comprises copy number alteration (CNA) data. 6. The method of clause 5, wherein the copy number alteration (CNA) data comprises copy number signature data. 7. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 6, wherein the sample data further comprises digital histopathology data. 8. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 7, wherein the machine learning model comprises a supervised machine learning model. 9. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 8, wherein the subject is suspected of having or is determined to have cancer. 10. The method of clause 9, wherein the cancer is a B cell cancer (multiple myeloma), a melanoma, breast cancer, lung cancer, bronchus cancer, colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, pancreatic cancer, stomach cancer, ovarian cancer, urinary bladder cancer, brain cancer, central nervous system cancer, peripheral nervous system cancer, esophageal cancer, cervical cancer, uterine cancer, endometrial cancer, cancer of an oral cavity, cancer of a pharynx, liver cancer, kidney cancer, testicular cancer, biliary tract cancer, small bowel cancer, appendix cancer, salivary gland cancer, thyroid gland cancer, adrenal gland cancer, osteosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, a cancer of hematological tissue, an adenocarcinoma, an inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), colon cancer, multiple myeloma (MM), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), myeloproliferative disorder (MPD), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute myelocytic leukemia (AML), chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), polycythemia Vera, Hodgkin lymphoma, nonHodgkin lymphoma (NHL), soft-tissue sarcoma, fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, osteogenic sarcoma, chordoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma, lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilms' tumor, bladder carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma, glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma, pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, meningioma, neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma, follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, thyroid cancer, gastric cancer, head and neck cancer, small cell cancer, essential thrombocythemia, agnogenic myeloid metaplasia, hypereosinophilic syndrome, systemic mastocytosis, familiar hypereosinophilia, chronic eosinophilic leukemia, neuroendocrine cancers, or a carcinoid tumor. 11. The method of clause 9, wherein the cancer comprises acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Philadelphia chromosome positive), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (precursor B-cell), acute myeloid leukemia (FLT3+), acute myeloid leukemia (with an IDH2 mutation), anaplastic large cell lymphoma, basal cell carcinoma, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, bladder cancer, breast cancer (HER2 overexpressed/amplified), breast cancer (HER2+), breast cancer (HR+, HER2-), cervical cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (with 17p deletion), chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia (Philadelphia chromosome positive), classical Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, colorectal cancer (dMMR/MSI-H), colorectal cancer (KRAS wild type), cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome, a cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, fallopian tube cancer, a follicular B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a follicular lymphoma, gastric cancer, gastric cancer (HER2+), gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma, a gastrointestinal stromal tumor, a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (KIT+), a giant cell tumor of the bone, a glioblastoma, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, a head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, a hepatocellular carcinoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, lupus erythematosus, a mantle cell lymphoma, medullary thyroid cancer, melanoma, a melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation, a melanoma with a BRAF V600E or V600K mutation, Merkel cell carcinoma, multicentric Castleman's disease, multiple hematologic malignancies including Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL and CML, multiple myeloma, myelofibrosis, a non-Hodgkin’ s lymphoma, a nonresectable subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with tuberous sclerosis, a non-small cell lung cancer, a non-small cell lung cancer (ALK+), a non-small cell lung cancer (PD-L1+), a non-small cell lung cancer (with ALK fusion or ROS1 gene alteration), a non-small cell lung cancer (with BRAF V600E mutation), a non-small cell lung cancer (with an EGFR exon 19 deletion or exon 21 substitution (L858R) mutations), a non- small cell lung cancer (with an EGFR T790M mutation), ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer (with a BRCA mutation), pancreatic cancer, a pancreatic, gastrointestinal, or lung origin neuroendocrine tumor, a pediatric neuroblastoma, a peripheral T-cell lymphoma, peritoneal cancer, prostate cancer, a renal cell carcinoma, rheumatoid arthritis, a small lymphocytic lymphoma, a soft tissue sarcoma, a solid tumor (MSI-H/dMMR), a squamous cell cancer of the head and neck, a squamous non-small cell lung cancer, thyroid cancer, a thyroid carcinoma, urothelial cancer, a urothelial carcinoma, or Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. 12. The method of any one of clauses 9 to 11, further comprising treating the subject with an anti-cancer therapy. 13. The method of clause 12, wherein the anti-cancer therapy comprises a targeted anti-cancer therapy. 14. The method of clause 13, wherein the targeted anti-cancer therapy comprises abemaciclib (Verzenio), abiraterone acetate (Zytiga), acalabrutinib (Calquence), ado-trastuzumab emtansine (Kadcyla), afatinib dimaleate (Gilotrif), aldesleukin (Proleukin), alectinib (Alecensa), alemtuzumab (Campath), alitretinoin (Panretin), alpelisib (Piqray), amivantamab-vmjw (Rybrevant), anastrozole (Arimidex), apalutamide (Erleada), asciminib hydrochloride (Scemblix), atezolizumab (Tecentriq), avapritinib (Ayvakit), avelumab (Bavencio), axicabtagene ciloleucel (Yescarta), axitinib (Inlyta), belantamab mafodotin-blmf (Blenrep), belimumab (Benlysta), belinostat (Beleodaq), belzutifan (Welireg), bevacizumab (Avastin), bexarotene (Targretin), binimetinib (Mektovi), blinatumomab (Blincyto), bortezomib (Velcade), bosutinib (Bosulif), brentuximab vedotin (Adcetris), brexucabtagene autoleucel (Tecartus), brigatinib (Alunbrig), cabazitaxel (Jevtana), cabozantinib (Cabometyx), cabozantinib (Cabometyx, Cometriq), canakinumab (Haris), capmatinib hydrochloride (Tabrecta), carfilzomib (Kyprolis), cemiplimab-rwlc (Libtayo), ceritinib (LDK378/Zykadia), cetuximab (Erbitux), cobimetinib (Cotellic), copanlisib hydrochloride (Aliqopa), crizotinib (Xalkori), dabrafenib (Tafinlar), dacomitinib (Vizimpro), daratumumab (Darzalex), daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj (Darzalex Faspro), darolutamide (Nubeqa), dasatinib (Sprycel), denileukin diftitox (Ontak), denosumab (Xgeva), dinutuximab (Unituxin), dostarlimab-gxly (Jemperli), durvalumab (Imfinzi), duvelisib (Copiktra), elotuzumab (Empliciti), enasidenib mesylate (Idhifa), encorafenib (Braftovi), enfortumab vedotin-ejfv (Padcev), entrectinib (Rozlytrek), enzalutamide (Xtandi), erdafitinib (Balversa), erlotinib (Tarceva), everolimus (Afinitor), exemestane (Aromasin), fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki (Enhertu), fedratinib hydrochloride (Inrebic), fulvestrant (Faslodex), gefitinib (Iressa), gemtuzumab ozogamicin (Mylotarg), gilteritinib (Xospata), glasdegib maleate (Daurismo), hyaluronidase-zzxf (Phesgo), ibrutinib (Imbruvica), ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin), idecabtagene vicleucel (Abecma), idelalisib (Zydelig), imatinib mesylate (Gleevec), infigratinib phosphate (Truseltiq), inotuzumab ozogamicin (Besponsa), iobenguane 1131 (Azedra), ipilimumab (Yervoy), isatuximab-irfc (Sarclisa), ivosidenib (Tibsovo), ixazomib citrate (Ninlaro), lanreotide acetate (Somatuline Depot), lapatinib (Tykerb), larotrectinib sulfate (Vitrakvi), lenvatinib mesylate (Lenvima), letrozole (Femara), lisocabtagene maraleucel (Breyanzi), loncastuximab tesirine-lpyl (Zynlonta), lorlatinib (Lorbrena), lutetium Lu 177-dotatate (Lutathera), margetuximab-cmkb (Margenza), midostaurin (Rydapt), mobocertinib succinate (Exkivity), mogamulizumab-kpkc (Poteligeo), moxetumomab pasudotox-tdfk (Lumoxiti), naxitamab-gqgk (Danyelza), necitumumab (Portrazza), neratinib maleate (Nerlynx), nilotinib (Tasigna), niraparib tosylate monohydrate (Zejula), nivolumab (Opdivo), obinutuzumab (Gazyva), ofatumumab (Arzerra), olaparib (Lynparza), olaratumab (Lartruvo), osimertinib (Tagrisso), palbociclib (Ibrance), panitumumab (Vectibix), panobinostat (Farydak), pazopanib (Votrient), pembrolizumab (Keytruda), pemigatinib (Pemazyre), pertuzumab (Perjeta), pexidartinib hydrochloride (Turalio), polatuzumab vedotin-piiq (Polivy), ponatinib hydrochloride (Iclusig), pralatrexate (Folotyn), pralsetinib (Gavreto), radium 223 dichloride (Xofigo), ramucirumab (Cyramza), regorafenib (Stivarga), ribociclib (Kisqali), ripretinib (Qinlock), rituximab (Rituxan), rituximab and hyaluronidase human (Rituxan Hycela), romidepsin (Istodax), rucaparib camsylate (Rubraca), ruxolitinib phosphate (Jakafi), sacituzumab govitecan-hziy (Trodelvy), seliciclib, selinexor (Xpovio), selpercatinib (Retevmo), selumetinib sulfate (Koselugo), siltuximab (Sylvant), sipuleucel-T (Provenge), sirolimus protein-bound particles (Fyarro), sonidegib (Odomzo), sorafenib (Nexavar), sotorasib (Lumakras), sunitinib (Sutent), tafasitamab-cxix (Monjuvi), tagraxofusp-erzs (Elzonris), talazoparib tosylate (Talzenna), tamoxifen (Nolvadex), tazemetostat hydrobromide (Tazverik), tebentafusp-tebn (Kimmtrak), temsirolimus (Torisel), tepotinib hydrochloride (Tepmetko), tisagenlecleucel (Kymriah), tisotumab vedotin-tftv (Tivdak), tocilizumab (Actemra), tofacitinib (Xeljanz), tositumomab (Bexxar), trametinib (Mekinist), trastuzumab (Herceptin), tretinoin (Vesanoid), tivozanib hydrochloride (Fotivda), toremifene (Fareston), tucatinib (Tukysa), umbralisib tosylate (Ukoniq), vandetanib (Caprelsa), vemurafenib (Zelboraf), venetoclax (Venclexta), vismodegib (Erivedge), vorinostat (Zolinza), zanubrutinib (Brukinsa), ziv-aflibercept (Zaltrap), or any combination thereof. 15. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 14, further comprising obtaining the sample from the subject. 16. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 15, wherein the sample comprises a tissue biopsy sample, a liquid biopsy sample, or a normal control. 17. The method of clause 16, wherein the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises blood, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, sputum, stool, urine, or saliva. 18. The method of clause 16, wherein the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises circulating tumor cells (CTCs). 19. The method of clause 16, wherein the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises cell- free DNA (cfDNA), circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), or any combination thereof. 20. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 19, wherein the plurality of nucleic acid molecules comprises a mixture of tumor nucleic acid molecules and non-tumor nucleic acid molecules. 21. The method of clause 20, wherein the tumor nucleic acid molecules are derived from a tumor portion of a heterogeneous tissue biopsy sample, and the non-tumor nucleic acid molecules are derived from a normal portion of the heterogeneous tissue biopsy sample. 22. The method of clause 20, wherein the sample comprises a liquid biopsy sample, and wherein the tumor nucleic acid molecules are derived from a circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) fraction of the liquid biopsy sample, and the non-tumor nucleic acid molecules are derived from a non- tumor, cell-free DNA (cfDNA) fraction of the liquid biopsy sample. 23. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 22, wherein the one or more adapters comprise amplification primers, flow cell adaptor sequences, substrate adapter sequences, or sample index sequences. 24. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 23, wherein the captured nucleic acid molecules are captured from the amplified nucleic acid molecules by hybridization to one or more bait molecules. 25. The method of clause 24, wherein the one or more bait molecules comprise one or more nucleic acid molecules, each comprising a region that is complementary to a region of a captured nucleic acid molecule. 26. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 25, wherein amplifying nucleic acid molecules comprises performing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification technique, a non-PCR amplification technique, or an isothermal amplification technique. 27. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 26, wherein the sequencing comprises use of a massively parallel sequencing (MPS) technique, whole genome sequencing (WGS), whole exome sequencing, targeted sequencing, direct sequencing, or Sanger sequencing technique. 28. The method of clause 27, wherein the sequencing comprises massively parallel sequencing, and the massively parallel sequencing technique comprises next generation sequencing (NGS). 29. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 28, wherein the sequencer comprises a next generation sequencer. 30. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 29, wherein one or more of the plurality of sequencing reads overlap one or more gene loci within one or more subgenomic intervals in the sample. 31. The method of clause 30, wherein the one or more gene loci comprises between 10 and 20 loci, between 10 and 40 loci, between 10 and 60 loci, between 10 and 80 loci, between 10 and 100 loci, between 10 and 150 loci, between 10 and 200 loci, between 10 and 250 loci, between 10 and 300 loci, between 10 and 350 loci, between 10 and 400 loci, between 10 and 450 loci, between 10 and 500 loci, between 20 and 40 loci, between 20 and 60 loci, between 20 and 80 loci, between 20 and 100 loci, between 20 and 150 loci, between 20 and 200 loci, between 20 and 250 loci, between 20 and 300 loci, between 20 and 350 loci, between 20 and 400 loci, between 20 and 500 loci, between 40 and 60 loci, between 40 and 80 loci, between 40 and 100 loci, between 40 and 150 loci, between 40 and 200 loci, between 40 and 250 loci, between 40 and 300 loci, between 40 and 350 loci, between 40 and 400 loci, between 40 and 500 loci, between 60 and 80 loci, between 60 and 100 loci, between 60 and 150 loci, between 60 and 200 loci, between 60 and 250 loci, between 60 and 300 loci, between 60 and 350 loci, between 60 and 400 loci, between 60 and 500 loci, between 80 and 100 loci, between 80 and 150 loci, between 80 and 200 loci, between 80 and 250 loci, between 80 and 300 loci, between 80 and 350 loci, between 80 and 400 loci, between 80 and 500 loci, between 100 and 150 loci, between 100 and 200 loci, between 100 and 250 loci, between 100 and 300 loci, between 100 and 350 loci, between 100 and 400 loci, between 100 and 500 loci, between 150 and 200 loci, between 150 and 250 loci, between 150 and 300 loci, between 150 and 350 loci, between 150 and 400 loci, between 150 and 500 loci, between 200 and 250 loci, between 200 and 300 loci, between 200 and 350 loci, between 200 and 400 loci, between 200 and 500 loci, between 250 and 300 loci, between 250 and 350 loci, between 250 and 400 loci, between 250 and 500 loci, between 300 and 350 loci, between 300 and 400 loci, between 300 and 500 loci, between 350 and 400 loci, between 350 and 500 loci, or between 400 and 500 loci. 32. The method of clause 30 or clause 31, wherein the one or more gene loci comprise ABL1, ACVR1B, AKT1, AKT2, AKT3, ALK, ALOX12B, AMER1, APC, AR, ARAF, ARFRP1, ARID1A, ASXL1, ATM, ATR, ATRX, AURKA, AURKB, AXIN1, AXL, BAP1, BARD1, BCL2, BCL2L1, BCL2L2, BCL6, BCOR, BCORL1, BCR, BRAF, BRCA1, BRCA2, BRD4, BRIP1, BTG1, BTG2, BTK, CALR, CARD11, CASP8, CBFB, CBL, CCND1, CCND2, CCND3, CCNE1, CD22, CD274, CD70, CD74, CD79A, CD79B, CDC73, CDH1, CDK12, CDK4, CDK6, CDK8, CDKN1A, CDKN1B, CDKN2A, CDKN2B, CDKN2C, CEBPA, CHEK1, CHEK2, CIC, CREBBP, CRKL, CSF1R, CSF3R, CTCF, CTNNA1, CTNNB1, CUL3, CUL4A, CXCR4, CYP17A1, DAXX, DDR1, DDR2, DIS3, DNMT3A, DOT1L, EED, EGFR, EMSY (Cllorf30), EP300, EPHA3, EPHB1, EPHB4, ERBB2, ERBB3, ERBB4, ERCC4, ERG, ERRFI1, ESRI, ETV4, ETV5, ETV6, EWSR1, EZH2, EZR, FAM46C, FANCA, FANCC, FANCG, FANCL, FAS, FBXW7, FGF10, FGF12, FGF14, FGF19, FGF23, FGF3, FGF4, FGF6, FGFR1, FGFR2, FGFR3, FGFR4, FH, FLCN, FLT1, FLT3, FOXL2, FUBP1, GABRA6, GATA3, GATA4, GATA6, GID4 (C17orf39), GNA11, GNA13, GNAQ, GNAS, GRM3, GSK3B, H3F3A, HDAC1, HGF, HNF1A, HRAS, HSD3B1, ID3, IDH1, IDH2, IGF1R, IKBKE, IKZF1, INPP4B, IRF2, IRF4, IRS2, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, JUN, KDM5A, KDM5C, KDM6A, KDR, KEAP1, KEL, KIT, KLHL6, KMT2A (MLL), KMT2D (MLL2), KRAS, LTK, LYN, MAF, MAP2K1, MAP2K2, MAP2K4, MAP3K1, MAP3K13, MAPK1, MCL1, MDM2, MDM4, MED12, MEF2B, MEN1, MERTK, MET, MITF, MKNK1, MLH1, MPL, MRE11A, MSH2, MSH3, MSH6, MST1R, MTAP, MTOR, MUTYH, MYB, MYC, MYCL, MYCN, MYD88, NBN, NF1, NF2, NFE2L2, NFKBIA, NKX2-1, NOTCH1, NOTCH2, NOTCH3, NPM1, NRAS, NT5C2, NTRK1, NTRK2, NTRK3, NUTM1, P2RY8, PALB2, PARK2, PARP1, PARP2, PARP3, PAX5, PBRM1, PDCD1, PDCD1LG2, PDGFRA, PDGFRB, PDK1, PIK3C2B, PIK3C2G, PIK3CA, PIK3CB, PIK3R1, PIM1, PMS2, POLDI, POLE, PPARG, PPP2R1A, PPP2R2A, PRDM1, PRKAR1A, PRKCI, PTCHI, PTEN, PTPN11, PTPRO, QKI, RAC1, RAD21, RAD51, RAD51B, RAD51C, RAD51D, RAD52, RAD54L, RAFI, RARA, RBI, RBM10, REL, RET, RICTOR, RNF43, ROS1, RPTOR, RSPO2, SDC4, SDHA, SDHB, SDHC, SDHD, SETD2, SF3B1, SGK1, SLC34A2, SMAD2, SMAD4, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, SMO, SNCAIP, SOCS1, SOX2, SOX9, SPEN, SPOP, SRC, STAG2, STAT3, STK11, SUFU, SYK, TBX3, TEK, TERC, TERT, TET2, TGFBR2, TIPARP, TMPRSS2, TNFAIP3, TNFRSF14, TP53, TSC1, TSC2, TYRO3, U2AF1, VEGFA, VHL, WHSCI, WHSC1L1, WT1, XPO1, XRCC2, ZNF217, ZNF703, or any combination thereof. 33. The method of clause 30 or clause 31, wherein the one or more gene loci comprise ABL, ALK, ALL, B4GALNT1, BAFF, BCL2, BRAF, BRCA, BTK, CD19, CD20, CD3, CD30, CD319, CD38, CD52, CDK4, CDK6, CML, CRACC, CS1, CTLA-4, dMMR, EGFR, ERBB1, ERBB2, FGFR1-3, FLT3, GD2, HDAC, HER1, HER2, HR, IDH2, IL-ip, IL-6, IL-6R, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, KIT, KRAS, MEK, MET, MSI-H, mTOR, PARP, PD-1, PDGFR, PDGFRa, PDGFRP, PD-L1, PI3K5, PIGF, PTCH, RAF, RANKL, RET, ROS1, SLAMF7, VEGF, VEGFA, VEGFB, or any combination thereof. 34. The method of any one of clauses 1 to 33, further comprising generating, by the one or more processors, a report comprising the prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. 35. The method of clause 34, further comprising transmitting the report to a healthcare provider. 36. The method of clause 35, wherein the report is transmitted via a computer network or a peer- to-peer connection. 37. A method for identifying a sample from a subject for which tumor mutational burden (TMB) is likely to be underestimated, the method comprising: receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. 38. A method for classifying a sample from a subject according to tumor mutational burden (TMB) status, the method comprising: receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a classification of the TMB status of the sample. 39. The method of clause 38, wherein the classification of the TMB status comprises classification of the sample as being TMB-High or TMB-Low. 40. The method of clause 38, wherein the classification of the TMB status comprises classification of the sample as being TMB-High, TMB-Low, or TMB-Indeterminate. 41. A method for determining a tumor mutational burden (TMB) status for a sample from a subject, the method comprising: receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a determination of the TMB of the sample. 42. The method of clause 41, wherein the determination of TMB further comprises a determination of a 95% confidence interval for the TMB of the sample. 43. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 42, wherein the variant data comprises short variant data. 44. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 43, wherein the variant data comprises genomic rearrangement data. 45. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 44, wherein the sample data further comprises mutational signature data. 46. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 45, wherein the sample data further comprises copy number alteration (CNA) data. 47. The method of clause 46, wherein the copy number alteration (CNA) data comprises copy number signature data. 48. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 47, wherein the sample data further comprises digital histopathology data. 49. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 48, wherein the machine learning model comprises a supervised machine learning model. 50. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 49, wherein the machine learning model comprises a random forest model, a logistic regression model, a support vector machine (SVM), an XGBoost model, or a neural network. 51. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 50, wherein the machine learning model is trained using at least one training data set comprising sample data for a set of training samples from a cohort of cancer patients. 52. The method of clause 51, wherein the training data set comprises sample data for training samples having a tumor purity of at least 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, or 30%. 53. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 52, further comprising processing sequence read data for a plurality of sequence reads obtained from the sample from the subject to generate the sample data. 54. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 53, wherein the sample comprises a tissue biopsy sample, a liquid biopsy sample, or a normal control. 55. The method of clause 54, wherein the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises blood, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, sputum, stool, urine, or saliva. 56. The method of clause 54, wherein the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises circulating tumor cells (CTCs). 57. The method of clause 54, wherein the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises cell- free DNA (cfDNA), circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), or any combination thereof. 58. The method of any one of clauses 37 to 57, wherein the subject has been diagnosed cancer. 59. The method of any one of clauses 38 to 58, wherein the TMB status or TMB determined for the sample is used to predict the subject’s response to an anti-cancer therapy. 60. The method of clause 59, wherein the anti-cancer therapy comprises an immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICPI) therapy. 61. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and output a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. 62. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and output a classification of the TMB status of the sample. 63. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and output a determination of the TMB of the sample. 64. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of a system, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to identify the sample as one for which TMB is likely to be underestimated based on the input sample data; and output a prediction of whether or not a determination of TMB for the sample is likely to be an underestimated value. 65. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of a system, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and output a classification of the TMB status of the sample. 66. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of a system, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and output a determination of the TMB of the sample. [0249] It should be understood from the foregoing that, while particular implementations of the disclosed methods and systems have been illustrated and described, various modifications can be made thereto and are contemplated herein. It is also not intended that the invention be limited by the specific examples provided within the specification. While the invention has been described with reference to the aforementioned specification, the descriptions and illustrations of the preferable embodiments herein are not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. Furthermore, it shall be understood that all aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific depictions, configurations or relative proportions set forth herein which depend upon a variety of conditions and variables. Various modifications in form and detail of the embodiments of the invention will be apparent to a person skilled in the art. It is therefore contemplated that the invention shall also cover any such modifications, variations and equivalents.

### Claims

Claims CLAIMS What is claimed is:1. A method for classifying a sample from a subject according to tumor mutational burden (TMB) status, the method comprising: receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a classification of the TMB status of the sample. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the classification of the TMB status comprises classification of the sample as being TMB-High or TMB-Low. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the classification of the TMB status comprises classification of the sample as being TMB-High, TMB-Low, or TMB -Indeterminate. 4. A method for determining a tumor mutational burden (TMB) status for a sample from a subject, the method comprising: receiving, at one or more processors, sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; providing, using the one or more processors, the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to determine the TMB of the sample based on the input sample data; and outputting, using the one or more processors, a determination of the TMB of the sample. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the determination of TMB further comprises a determination of a 95% confidence interval for the TMB of the sample. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the variant data comprises short variant data. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the variant data comprises genomic rearrangement data. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample data further comprises mutational signature data. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample data further comprises copy number alteration (CNA) data. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the copy number alteration (CNA) data comprises copy number signature data. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample data further comprises digital histopathology data. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model comprises a random forest model, a logistic regression model, a support vector machine (SVM), an XGBoost model, or a neural network. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is trained using at least one training data set comprising sample data for a set of training samples from a cohort of cancer patients. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the training data set comprises sample data for training samples having a tumor purity of at least 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, or 30%. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing sequence read data for a plurality of sequence reads obtained from the sample from the subject to generate the sample data. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises a tissue biopsy sample, a liquid biopsy sample, or a normal control. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises blood, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, sputum, stool, urine, or saliva. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises circulating tumor cells (CTCs). 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the sample is a liquid biopsy sample and comprises cell- free DNA (cfDNA), circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), or any combination thereof. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject has been diagnosed cancer. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the TMB status or TMB determined for the sample is used to predict the subject’s response to an anti-cancer therapy. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the anti-cancer therapy comprises an immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICPI) therapy. 23. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive sample data comprising tumor purity data, variant data, variant allele fraction (VAF) data, or any combination thereof, for the sample from the subject; provide the sample data as input to a machine learning model configured to classify the sample according to TMB status based on the input sample data; and output a classification of the TMB status of the sample.
