## Patent Reference

- Title: MYO15A gene mutant and its application
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN113684213B/en

### Abstract

Abstract The invention provides a MYO15A gene mutant and application thereof. A genetic mutation is provided having a c.2802_2812DELTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or a c.5681T > C mutation compared to the wild-type MYO15A gene. The gene mutation is detectable, and by detecting whether the gene mutation exists in a biological sample, whether the biological sample suffers from non-syndrome type deafness can be effectively detected. By detecting the gene mutation, the detection and research of the hereditary hearing loss disease are expanded and perfected, and a novel detection site and a novel detection method and a novel detection path are provided for diagnosis or treatment of the disease.

### Description

Description Translated from Chinese MYO15A基因突变体及其应用MYO15A gene mutant and its application 技术领域Technical Field 本发明属于基因工程技术领域，具体涉及一种MYO15A基因突变体及其应用。The invention belongs to the technical field of genetic engineering, and specifically relates to a MYO15A gene mutant and an application thereof. 背景技术Background Art 耳聋(hearing loss,HL)是最常见的感官功能障碍类疾病，相当一部分的耳聋患者的发病与遗传因素有关。通过基因检测手段确定耳聋发病的分子机制，从而进一步采取产前基因诊断和干预措施，是降低耳聋发生率的有效手段，也是耳聋防治的根本途径之一。根据是否有并发的其他临床表型，遗传性耳聋可分为综合征型耳聋(syndromic hearingloss,SHL)和非综合征型耳聋(non-syndromic hearing loss,NSHL)。Hearing loss (HL) is the most common sensory dysfunction disease, and a considerable number of deafness patients are related to genetic factors. Determining the molecular mechanism of deafness through genetic testing and further taking prenatal genetic diagnosis and intervention measures is an effective means to reduce the incidence of deafness and one of the fundamental ways to prevent and treat deafness. Depending on whether there are other concurrent clinical phenotypes, hereditary deafness can be divided into syndromic hearing loss (SHL) and non-syndromic hearing loss (NSHL). 非综合征型耳聋在先天性遗传性耳聋中占70％左右，其中又有75％-80％为常染色体隐性遗传(autosomal recessive,AR)。迄今为止，已有超过100个基因座(loci)与常染色体隐性耳聋相关联，这些基因座被命名为DFNB。由不同致病基因导致的非综合征型耳聋在发病年龄、听力损失程度、进行性等方面存在明显差异。确定耳聋发病的致病基因有助于为患者选取合适的听力干预手段，更好地提高耳聋患者的生活质量。Non-syndromic deafness accounts for about 70% of congenital hereditary deafness, of which 75%-80% is autosomal recessive (AR). To date, more than 100 loci have been associated with autosomal recessive deafness, and these loci are named DFNB. Non-syndromic deafness caused by different pathogenic genes has obvious differences in age of onset, degree of hearing loss, and progressiveness. Identifying the pathogenic gene for deafness will help select appropriate hearing intervention methods for patients and better improve the quality of life of deaf patients. 随着测序技术的发展，越来越多的遗传性耳聋相关基因得到鉴定，为遗传性耳聋的分子学诊断提供了基础，使得更多的遗传性耳聋患者得到诊断与治疗。然而，由于遗传性耳聋具有很强的遗传异质性，目前仍有大量的致病基因未被鉴定，所以这方面的研究还有很大的空间，仍需要加强基因鉴定方面的研究。With the development of sequencing technology, more and more genes related to hereditary deafness have been identified, which provides a basis for the molecular diagnosis of hereditary deafness and enables more patients with hereditary deafness to be diagnosed and treated. However, due to the strong genetic heterogeneity of hereditary deafness, there are still a large number of pathogenic genes that have not been identified, so there is still a lot of room for research in this area, and research on gene identification still needs to be strengthened. 发明内容Summary of the invention 本发明旨在至少在一定程度上解决相关技术中的技术问题之一。为此，本发明的一个目的在于一种MYO15A基因突变体及其应用。The present invention aims to solve one of the technical problems in the related art at least to a certain extent. To this end, one object of the present invention is a MYO15A gene mutant and its application. 需要说明的是，本发明是基于发明人的下列认知和发现所完成的：It should be noted that the present invention is completed based on the following cognition and discovery of the inventor: 全外显子测序(Whole-exome sequencing，WES)是应用频率最高的基因组测序方法。外显子是人基因组的蛋白编码区域，利用序列捕获技术可以将其DNA捕获并且富集。虽然外显子区域仅占全基因组1％左右，却包含了85％的致病突变。相比全基因组测序，全外显子测序更加经济、高效。外显子组测序主要用于识别和研究与疾病、种群进化相关的编码区及UTR区域内的变异。结合大量的公共数据库提供的外显子数据，有利于更好地解释所得变异与疾病的关系。Whole-exome sequencing (WES) is the most frequently used genome sequencing method. Exons are protein-coding regions of the human genome, and their DNA can be captured and enriched using sequence capture technology. Although the exon region only accounts for about 1% of the entire genome, it contains 85% of pathogenic mutations. Compared with whole genome sequencing, whole exome sequencing is more economical and efficient. Exome sequencing is mainly used to identify and study variants in coding regions and UTR regions related to diseases and population evolution. Combining exome data provided by a large number of public databases is conducive to better explaining the relationship between the obtained variants and diseases. 发明人针对自行收集的一例常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋Trio家系(父母+先证者)，通过全外显子测序、家系分析联合Sanger测序验证的方法进行致病突变检测和验证。最终，根据各项检测结果，发明人确定了常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的新致病突变位点——MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变，且该突变与患者另一条染色体上同一个基因的突变c.5681T>C构成复合杂合(in trans)，导致了常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发生。The inventors detected and verified pathogenic mutations in a Trio family (parents + proband) with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness collected by themselves through whole exome sequencing, family analysis and Sanger sequencing verification. Finally, based on the results of various tests, the inventors identified a new pathogenic mutation site for autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness - the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation of the MYO15A gene, and this mutation formed a compound heterozygosity (in trans) with the mutation c.5681T>C of the same gene on another chromosome of the patient, leading to the occurrence of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. MYO15A基因位于DFNB3基因座上，包括66个外显子，编码三个独特的亚型，其中之一是肌球蛋白15。肌球蛋白15是维持正常听力所必需的，因此MYO15A基因对传递知觉的毛细胞静纤毛的发育和维持有重要作用。The MYO15A gene is located at the DFNB3 locus and includes 66 exons, encoding three unique isoforms, one of which is myosin 15. Myosin 15 is required for maintaining normal hearing, so the MYO15A gene plays an important role in the development and maintenance of the stereocilia of hair cells that transmit perception. 发明人通过对一例常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋Trio家系进行研究，发现了致病突变位点MYO15A基因上的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变与同一基因的突变c.5681T>C构成复合杂合(in trans)，该突变导致肌球蛋白15异常是引起人类DFNB3型耳聋的原因。MYO15A基因突变会引起常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋，临床表现为学语前非进行性重度－极重度全频听力损失。应用该突变位点可以用于筛查常染色体隐性耳聋致病突变携带者。两个突变位点结合可以用于常染色体隐性耳聋患者的分子诊断以及相关疾病的鉴别诊断，并且快速、准确、高效、简便、早期诊断率高。当然，还可以根据需要与MYO15A基因上已经报道的其他变异位点等联合使用，或者与其他已经报道的用于常染色体隐性耳聋表征的突变位点联用，应用于常染色体隐性耳聋患者的分子诊断以及相关疾病的鉴别和诊断。The inventors studied a Trio family with autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness and found that the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation on the MYO15A gene, which is a compound heterozygous mutation (in trans), and the c.5681T>C mutation on the same gene, which causes abnormal myosin 15, is the cause of DFNB3 type deafness in humans. MYO15A gene mutation can cause autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, with clinical manifestations of non-progressive severe to profound full-frequency hearing loss before learning to speak. This mutation site can be used to screen for carriers of autosomal recessive pathogenic mutations for deafness. The combination of the two mutation sites can be used for molecular diagnosis of patients with autosomal recessive deafness and differential diagnosis of related diseases, and it is fast, accurate, efficient, simple, and has a high early diagnosis rate. Of course, it can also be used in combination with other reported mutation sites on the MYO15A gene, or with other reported mutation sites for the characterization of autosomal recessive deafness, for the molecular diagnosis of patients with autosomal recessive deafness and the identification and diagnosis of related diseases. 在本发明的第一方面，本发明提出了一种基因突变。根据本发明的实施例，与野生型MYO15A基因相比，具有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变。发明人发现MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而可以通过检测该基因突变在生物样本中是否发生，有效地检测生物样本是否患非综合征型耳聋。根据本发明的实施例，所提供的基因突变是可检测的。In the first aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a gene mutation. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the wild-type MYO15A gene, it has a c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or a c.5681T>C mutation. The inventors found that the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or the c.5681T>C mutation of the MYO15A gene is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, so that by detecting whether the gene mutation occurs in the biological sample, it is possible to effectively detect whether the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the provided gene mutation is detectable. 在本发明的第二方面，本发明提供了一种核酸。根据本发明的实施例，与野生型MYO15A基因相比，具有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变。发明人发现MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而可以通过检测上述核酸在生物样品中是否存在，有效地检测生物样品是否易患非综合征型耳聋。根据本发明的实施例，所提供的核酸是可分离的。In the second aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a nucleic acid. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the wild-type MYO15A gene, it has a c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or a c.5681T>C mutation. The inventors found that the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or the c.5681T>C mutation of the MYO15A gene is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, so that by detecting whether the above-mentioned nucleic acid exists in the biological sample, it is possible to effectively detect whether the biological sample is susceptible to non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the provided nucleic acid is separable. 在本发明的第三方面，本发明提供了一种多肽。根据本发明的实施例，与野生型MYO15A基因表达的多肽的氨基酸序列相比，所述多肽的氨基酸序列具有下列突变：p.Gln937Leufs*39和/或p.Leu1894Pro突变引起的氨基酸突变。如上文提到的，MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变引起的氨基酸突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，因此上述核酸所表达的蛋白或者多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而可以通过检测该蛋白或者多肽在生物样品中是否存在，有效地检测生物样品是否易患非综合征型耳聋。根据本发明的实施例，所提供的多肽是可分离的。In the third aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a polypeptide. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide expressed by the wild-type MYO15A gene, the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide has the following mutations: amino acid mutations caused by p.Gln937Leufs*39 and/or p.Leu1894Pro mutations. As mentioned above, the amino acid mutations caused by the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or the c.5681T>C mutation of the MYO15A gene are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, so the protein or polypeptide expressed by the above nucleic acid is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and then by detecting whether the protein or polypeptide exists in the biological sample, it is possible to effectively detect whether the biological sample is susceptible to non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the provided polypeptide is separable. 在本发明的第四方面，本发明提供了一种检测基因突变或核酸或多肽的试剂在制备试剂盒或者设备中的用途，所述试剂盒或者设备用于诊断非综合征型耳聋，所述基因突变为本发明第一方面所述的基因突变，所述核酸为本发明第二方面所述的核酸，所述多肽为本发明第三方面所述的多肽。如上所述，前面提到的基因突变、核酸、多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而可以将能够用于检测这些基因突变、核酸或者多肽的试剂来制备试剂盒或者设备，所得到的试剂盒或设备能有效筛选出患有非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In the fourth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a use of a reagent for detecting gene mutation or nucleic acid or polypeptide in preparing a kit or device, the kit or device is used to diagnose non-syndromic deafness, the gene mutation is the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention, the nucleic acid is the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention, and the polypeptide is the polypeptide described in the third aspect of the present invention. As mentioned above, the aforementioned gene mutation, nucleic acid, and polypeptide are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and then the reagents that can be used to detect these gene mutations, nucleic acids, or polypeptides can be used to prepare a kit or device, and the obtained kit or device can effectively screen out biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第五方面，本发明提供了一种生物模型在筛选药物中的用途，所述生物模型携带下列至少之一：(1)本发明第一方面所述的基因突变；(2)本发明第二方面所述的核酸；(3)表达本发明第三方面所述的多肽。需要说明的是，“生物模型携带本发明第一方面所述的基因突变”表示，生物模型携带的MYO15A基因与野生型MYO15A基因相比，具有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变；“生物模型携带本发明第二方面所述的核酸”表示，生物模型携带的核酸序列与野生型MYO15A基因的核酸序列相比，具有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变；“生物模型携带本发明第三方面所述的多肽”表示，生物模型携带的多肽与野生型MYO15A基因所表达的多肽相比，具有p.Gln937Leufs*39和/或p.Leu1894Pro突变引起的氨基酸突变。所提供的生物模型能有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究。根据本发明的实施例，所提供的生物模型可以用于筛选药物，所述药物用于治疗非综合征型耳聋。所提供的生物模型可以为细胞模型或者动物模型。In the fifth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a use of a biological model in screening drugs, wherein the biological model carries at least one of the following: (1) the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention; (2) the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention; (3) expresses the polypeptide described in the third aspect of the present invention. It should be noted that 'the biological model carries the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention' means that the MYO15A gene carried by the biological model has a c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or a c.5681T>C mutation compared with the wild-type MYO15A gene; 'the biological model carries the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention' means that the nucleic acid sequence carried by the biological model has a c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or a c.5681T>C mutation compared with the nucleic acid sequence of the wild-type MYO15A gene; 'the biological model carries the polypeptide described in the third aspect of the present invention' means that the polypeptide carried by the biological model has an amino acid mutation caused by p.Gln937Leufs*39 and/or p.Leu1894Pro mutation compared with the polypeptide expressed by the wild-type MYO15A gene. The provided biological model can be effectively used for non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness related research. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the provided biological model can be used to screen drugs for treating non-syndromic deafness. The provided biological model can be a cell model or an animal model. 在本发明的第六方面，本发明提供了特异性改变基因突变或者核酸的试剂在制备药物中的用途，所述药物用于治疗非综合征型耳聋，其中所述基因突变为本发明第一方面所述的基因突变，所述核酸为本发明第二方面所述的核酸。需要说明的是，这里的特异性改变是指能使得突变的核酸或者基因突变的位点恢复到原来的野生状态或者其他不具有致病性的状态，而对于个体基因组的其他序列不产生实质影响。如前所述，前面所述的基因突变或者前面所述的核酸与非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，由此，特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂制备的药物能有效用于治疗非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。In the sixth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides the use of an agent that specifically changes a gene mutation or a nucleic acid in the preparation of a drug, the drug being used to treat non-syndromic deafness, wherein the gene mutation is the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention, and the nucleic acid is the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention. It should be noted that the specific change here refers to the ability to restore the mutated nucleic acid or the site of the gene mutation to the original wild state or other non-pathogenic state, without having a substantial effect on other sequences of the individual genome. As mentioned above, the aforementioned gene mutation or the aforementioned nucleic acid is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Therefore, the drug prepared by the agent that specifically changes the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation can be effectively used to treat non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第七方面，本发明提供了一种用于治疗非综合型耳聋的药物，所述药物含有：特异性改变本发明第一方面所述的基因突变或者本发明第二方面所述的核酸的试剂。需要说明的是，这里的特异性改变是指能使得突变的核酸或者基因突变的位点恢复到原来的野生状态或者其他不具有致病性的状态，而对于个体基因组的其他序列不产生实质影响。如前所述，前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，由此，包含特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂的药物能有效用于治疗非综合征型耳聋。In the seventh aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a drug for treating non-syndromic deafness, the drug containing: an agent that specifically changes the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention or the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention. It should be noted that the specific change here refers to the ability to restore the mutated nucleic acid or the site of the gene mutation to the original wild state or other non-pathogenic state, without having a substantial effect on other sequences of the individual's genome. As mentioned above, the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and thus, the drug containing the agent that specifically changes the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation can be effectively used to treat non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第八方面，本发明提供了一种构建体，包含本发明第一方面所述的基因突变或本发明第二方面所述的核酸。需要说明的是，“构建体包含本发明第一方面所述的基因突变”表示，构建体与野生型MYO15A基因相比，具有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变；“构建体包含本发明第二方面所述的核酸”表示，构建体携带的核酸序列与野生型MYO15A基因的核酸序列相比，具有p.Gln937Leufs*39和/或p.Leu1894Pro突变。由此，根据本发明实施例的构建体转化受体细胞获得的重组细胞，能够有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。In the eighth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a construct comprising the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention or the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention. It should be noted that 'the construct comprises the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention' means that the construct has a c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or a c.5681T>C mutation compared with the wild-type MYO15A gene; 'the construct comprises the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention' means that the nucleic acid sequence carried by the construct has p.Gln937Leufs*39 and/or p.Leu1894Pro mutations compared with the nucleic acid sequence of the wild-type MYO15A gene. Thus, the recombinant cells obtained by transforming the receptor cells with the construct according to the embodiment of the present invention can be effectively used as a model for related research on non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 在本发明的第九方面，本发明提供了一种重组细胞，所述重组细胞是通过本发明第八方面所述的构建体转化受体细胞获得的。根据本发明的一些实施例，本发明的重组细胞，能够有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究。In a ninth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a recombinant cell, which is obtained by transforming a recipient cell with the construct described in the eighth aspect of the present invention. According to some embodiments of the present invention, the recombinant cell of the present invention can be effectively used for non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness related research. 在本发明的第十方面，本发明提供了一种检测非综合征型耳聋的试剂盒，所述试剂盒中包括检测本发明第一方面所述的基因突变的试剂，和/或检测本发明第二方面所述的核酸的试剂，和/或检测本发明第三方面所述的多肽的试剂。如前所述，前面所述的核酸、基因突变、多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而能用于包含能有效地检测前面所述的核酸或前面所述的基因突变或前面所述的多肽的试剂的试剂盒能有效筛选出患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In the tenth aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a kit for detecting non-syndromic deafness, wherein the kit includes a reagent for detecting the gene mutation described in the first aspect of the present invention, and/or a reagent for detecting the nucleic acid described in the second aspect of the present invention, and/or a reagent for detecting the polypeptide described in the third aspect of the present invention. As mentioned above, the aforementioned nucleic acids, gene mutations, and polypeptides are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and thus a kit containing reagents that can effectively detect the aforementioned nucleic acids, the aforementioned gene mutations, or the aforementioned polypeptides can effectively screen out biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 本发明的附加方面和优点将在下面的描述中部分给出，部分将从下面的描述中变得明显，或通过本发明的实践了解到。Additional aspects and advantages of the present invention will be given in part in the following description and in part will be obvious from the following description, or will be learned through practice of the present invention. 附图说明BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 本发明的上述和/或附加的方面和优点从结合下面附图对实施例的描述中将变得明显和容易理解，其中：The above and/or additional aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent and easily understood from the description of the embodiments in conjunction with the following drawings, in which: 图1显示了根据本发明的一个实施例提供的常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋Trio家系图；FIG1 shows a Trio pedigree of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness provided according to an embodiment of the present invention; 图2显示了根据本发明的一个实施例提供的患者家系中患者的纯音测听结果；FIG2 shows pure tone audiometry results of patients in a patient family according to an embodiment of the present invention; 图3显示了根据本发明的一个实施例提供的患者家系中所有家系成员的MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变位点的代表性Sanger测序验证峰图；FIG3 shows a representative Sanger sequencing validation peak diagram of the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation site of the MYO15A gene of all family members in a patient's family provided according to one embodiment of the present invention; 图4显示了根据本发明的一个实施例提供的患者家系中所有家系成员的MYO15A基因的c.5681T>C突变位点的代表性Sanger测序验证峰图。FIG. 4 shows a representative Sanger sequencing validation peak diagram of the c.5681T>C mutation site of the MYO15A gene of all family members in a patient's family provided according to an embodiment of the present invention. 具体实施方式DETAILED DESCRIPTION 下面详细描述本发明的实施例。下面描述的实施例是示例性的，仅用于解释本发明，而不能理解为对本发明的限制。The embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below. The embodiments described below are exemplary and are only used to explain the present invention, and should not be construed as limiting the present invention. 需要说明的是，术语“第一”、“第二”仅用于描述目的，而不能理解为指示或暗示相对重要性或者隐含指明所指示的技术特征的数量。由此，限定有“第一”、“第二”的特征可以明示或者隐含地包括一个或者更多个该特征。进一步地，在本发明的描述中，除非另有说明，“多个”的含义是两个或两个以上。It should be noted that the terms 'first' and 'second' are used for descriptive purposes only and should not be understood as indicating or implying relative importance or implicitly indicating the number of the indicated technical features. Therefore, the features defined as 'first' and 'second' may explicitly or implicitly include one or more of the features. Further, in the description of the present invention, unless otherwise specified, the meaning of 'plurality' is two or more. 本文中，术语“非综合征型耳聋”在本领域也常被称为“非综合征型遗传性耳聋”，其是指耳聋为发病个体的唯一症状，无其他遗传性损害性器官功能障碍。Herein, the term 'non-syndromic deafness' is also often referred to in the art as 'non-syndromic hereditary deafness', which means that deafness is the only symptom of the individual with the disease, without other genetically damaged organ dysfunction. 术语“常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋”在本领域也通常为称为“常染色体隐性非综合征型遗传性耳聋”或者被称为“非综合征型常染色体隐性耳聋”或者“非综合征型常染色体隐性遗传性耳聋”，是指遗传性耳聋是发生在常染色体上的隐性等位基因所控制的，即需要两个等位基因均表现为隐性，该患者表现为患病。且由于c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC和c.5681T>C突变表现为复合杂合，只有两个位点均发生突变，患者才表现为患病。The term 'autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness' is also commonly referred to in the art as 'autosomal recessive non-syndromic hereditary deafness' or 'non-syndromic autosomal recessive deafness' or 'non-syndromic autosomal recessive hereditary deafness', which means that hereditary deafness is controlled by recessive alleles occurring on autosomes, that is, both alleles need to be recessive for the patient to be ill. And because the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC and c.5681T>C mutations are compound heterozygous, only when both sites are mutated will the patient be ill. 本发明发现了常染色体隐性耳聋致病基因MYO15A上的致病位点c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变，该突变与患者另一条染色体上同一个基因的突变c.5681T>C构成复合杂合(in trans)，导致了常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的发生。该突变位点可以用于筛查常染色体隐性耳聋致病突变携带者,也可用于常染色体隐性耳聋患者的分子诊断及与相关疾病的鉴别诊断，并且快速、准确、高效、简便、早期诊断率高，检测结果可以为常染色体隐性耳聋的早期诊断、鉴别诊断及药物治疗提供科学依据。The present invention discovered the pathogenic site c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation on the autosomal recessive deafness-causing gene MYO15A, which formed a compound heterozygosity (in trans) with the mutation c.5681T>C of the same gene on another chromosome of the patient, leading to the occurrence of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. The mutation site can be used to screen carriers of autosomal recessive deafness-causing mutations, and can also be used for molecular diagnosis of autosomal recessive deafness patients and differential diagnosis of related diseases, and is fast, accurate, efficient, simple, and has a high early diagnosis rate. The test results can provide a scientific basis for the early diagnosis, differential diagnosis, and drug treatment of autosomal recessive deafness. 需要说明的是，本文中所提供的MYO15A基因上的突变位点，可以用来作为非综合征型耳聋的标示，更具体地说是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的标示；或者这些突变位点的出现用来说明生物样品患有非综合征型耳聋，更具体地说是患有常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。这并不意味着“非综合征型耳聋”、“常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋”是作为MYO15A基因上该突变位点的一种限制。也就是说，如果要对MYO15A基因上的该突变位点所表征的疾病进行详细地指示或者说明时，可以知悉其可以说明该生物样品是患有非综合征型耳聋，更具体地说是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋；但是也完全可以根据具体目的或者针对对象不同，被直接告知患有遗传性耳聋，或者说是患有耳聋。It should be noted that the mutation sites on the MYO15A gene provided herein can be used as an indicator of non-syndromic deafness, more specifically, an indicator of autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness; or the appearance of these mutation sites is used to indicate that the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness, more specifically, autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. This does not mean that 'non-syndromic deafness' or 'autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness' is a limitation of the mutation site on the MYO15A gene. In other words, if the disease characterized by the mutation site on the MYO15A gene is to be indicated or explained in detail, it can be known that it can indicate that the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness, more specifically, autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness; but it is also entirely possible to be directly informed of hereditary deafness, or deafness, according to specific purposes or different objects. 本文中，野生型MYO15A基因的DNA序列(例如内含子序列、外显子序列等)、RNA序列、编码蛋白信息等有关该野生型MYO15A基因的信息均在NCBI数据库中有收录，可以参考下述网址获得：https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/NC_000017.10？report＝genbank&from＝18012020&to＝18083116和https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/NM_016239.4/。本文中所示出的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变、c.5681T>C突变均是以NCBI数据库中野生型MYO15A基因的cDNA及内含子序列为参考而确定的。In this article, the DNA sequence (such as intron sequence, exon sequence, etc.), RNA sequence, encoded protein information and other information about the wild-type MYO15A gene are all included in the NCBI database, which can be obtained by referring to the following websites: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/NC_000017.10?report=genbank&from=18012020&to=18083116 and https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/NM_016239.4/. The c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and c.5681T>C mutation shown in this article were determined with reference to the cDNA and intron sequences of the wild-type MYO15A gene in the NCBI database. 本文中，所示出的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变是指在野生型MYO15A的cDNA上第2802到2812位发生TCCCACCCAAC碱基缺失。Herein, the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation shown refers to a TCCCACCCAAC base deletion at positions 2802 to 2812 in the cDNA of wild-type MYO15A. 为了方面查看，将野生型MYO15A基因的部分DNA序列提供如下，c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变对应该部分野生型序列(SEQ ID NO:1)的双下划线加粗碱基即为发生的碱基TCCCACCCAAC的缺失，...标记的为引物序列。For ease of viewing, a partial DNA sequence of the wild-type MYO15A gene is provided as follows. The double-underlined bold bases corresponding to the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation in this partial wild-type sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) are the deletions of the bases TCCCACCCAAC that occurred, ... The markers are primer sequences. SEQ ID NO:1(对应NCBI数据库编号为NCBI Reference Sequence:NM_016239.4，对应的序列区段：EXON2)SEQ ID NO: 1 (corresponding NCBI database number is NCBI Reference Sequence: NM_016239.4, corresponding sequence segment: EXON2) 如下所示：As shown below: 相应地，MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变导致氨基酸改变，该氨基酸可以表示为p.Gln937Leufs*39，代表相较于野生型MYO15A基因所表达的氨基酸，经过突变的多肽的即其第937位谷氨酰胺(Gln)变为亮氨酸(Leu)，同时发生移码，在移码39个氨基酸后发生终止。Correspondingly, the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation of the MYO15A gene results in an amino acid change, which can be expressed as p.Gln937Leufs*39, representing that compared with the amino acids expressed by the wild-type MYO15A gene, the 937th glutamine (Gln) of the mutated polypeptide is changed to leucine (Leu), and a frameshift occurs at the same time, and termination occurs after 39 amino acids of the frameshift. 同样地，本文中，所示出的c.5681T>C突变是指在野生型MYO15A基因的第5681位发生T碱基被C碱基替换。Similarly, in this article, the c.5681T>C mutation shown refers to the replacement of the T base by the C base at position 5681 of the wild-type MYO15A gene. 为了方便查看，将野生型MYO15A基因的部分DNA序列提供如下，如SEQ ID NO:2所示(其中双下划线加粗的碱基即为突变碱基，由碱基T突变为碱基C，...标记的为引物序列)。For ease of viewing, a partial DNA sequence of the wild-type MYO15A gene is provided below, as shown in SEQ ID NO: 2 (wherein the double-underlined bold bases are mutated bases, mutating from base T to base C, ... marked are primer sequences). SEQ ID NO:2(对应NCBI数据库编号为NCBI Reference Sequence:NM_016239.4，对应的序列区段：INTRON23-EXON24)SEQ ID NO: 2 (corresponding NCBI database number is NCBI Reference Sequence: NM_016239.4, corresponding sequence segment: INTRON23-EXON24) 相应地，该MYO15A4基因的c.5681T>C突变会影响剪切，导致氨基酸发生移码突变，该氨基酸可以表示为p.Leu1894Pro，即其第1894位亮氨酸(Leu)变为脯氨酸(Pro)。Correspondingly, the c.5681T>C mutation of the MYO15A4 gene affects splicing, resulting in a frameshift mutation of the amino acid, which can be expressed as p.Leu1894Pro, that is, the 1894th leucine (Leu) is changed to proline (Pro). 需要说明的是，上述给出的突变位点以及序列等，均是以收录于NCBI数据库中的内容作为参考，本领域技术人员应该理解的是，由于数据库的更新或者数据库的不同，所示出的突变位点以及序列等可能会稍有不同或者变化，这些不同或者变化均可以给出的该数据库中的内容为标准确定，这些不同或者变化也均包含在本发明的保护范围之内。It should be noted that the mutation sites and sequences given above are all referenced to the content included in the NCBI database. Those skilled in the art should understand that due to the update of the database or the difference in databases, the mutation sites and sequences shown may be slightly different or changed. These differences or changes can be determined based on the content of the database given as the standard, and these differences or changes are also included in the protection scope of the present invention. 基因突变Gene mutation 在本发明的一个方面，本发明提出了一种基因突变。根据本发明的实施例，与野生型MYO15A基因相比，具有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变。发明人发现该基因上的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变与非综合征型耳聋(如常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋)的发病密切相关，从而通过检测上述基因突变在生物样品中是否发生，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋。In one aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a gene mutation. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the wild-type MYO15A gene, there is a c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or a c.5681T>C mutation. The inventors found that the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or the c.5681T>C mutation on the gene is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness (such as autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness), so by detecting whether the above gene mutation occurs in a biological sample, it is possible to effectively detect whether the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness. 基因突变通常指基因在结构上发生碱基对组成或者排列顺序的改变。本文中，基因突变是指发生在MYO15A基因上的碱基的缺失、插入、替换等。该基因突变是可以被检测的或者说是可以被辨别的，其可以作为MYO15A基因上的一个突变位点被检测或者辨别，也可以被作为MYO15A基因的部分核酸或者MYO15A基因的全部核酸被检测或者辨别。当然也可以称该基因突变是可以被甄选的。可以采用本领域常用的抗体、探针、引物以及质谱检测试剂等，对上述基因突变进行检测。Gene mutation generally refers to a change in the base pair composition or arrangement order of a gene structure. In this article, gene mutation refers to the deletion, insertion, replacement, etc. of bases in the MYO15A gene. The gene mutation can be detected or identified. It can be detected or identified as a mutation site on the MYO15A gene, or it can be detected or identified as a partial nucleic acid of the MYO15A gene or the entire nucleic acid of the MYO15A gene. Of course, it can also be said that the gene mutation can be selected. The above-mentioned gene mutation can be detected using antibodies, probes, primers, mass spectrometry detection reagents, etc. commonly used in the art. 核酸Nucleic Acids 在本发明的又一方面，本发明提出了一种核酸。根据本发明的实施例，与野生型MYO15A基因相比，具有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变。发明人发现MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，从而通过检测上述核酸在生物样品中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a nucleic acid. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the wild-type MYO15A gene, it has a c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or a c.5681T>C mutation. The inventors found that the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or the c.5681T>C mutation of the MYO15A gene is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, so by detecting whether the above nucleic acid exists in a biological sample, it is possible to effectively detect whether the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness. 对于本发明说明书和权利要求书中，提及核酸，本领域技术人员应当理解，实际包括互补双链的任意一条，或者两条。为了方便，在本说明书和权利要求书中，虽然多数情况下只给出了一条链，但实际上也公开了与之互补的另一条链。例如，提及MYO15A基因的序列，实际包括其互补序列。本领域技术人员还可以理解，利用一条链可以检测另一条链，反之亦然。In the specification and claims of the present invention, when nucleic acids are mentioned, those skilled in the art should understand that they actually include any one or both of the complementary double strands. For convenience, in the specification and claims, although only one strand is given in most cases, the other strand complementary thereto is actually disclosed. For example, when the sequence of the MYO15A gene is mentioned, its complementary sequence is actually included. Those skilled in the art can also understand that one strand can be used to detect the other strand, and vice versa. 多肽Peptides 在本发明另一方面，本发明提出了一种多肽。根据本发明的实施例，与野生型MYO15A基因表达的多肽的氨基酸序列相比，所述多肽的氨基酸序列具有下列突变：p.Gln937Leufs*39和/或p.Leu1894Pro突变引起的氨基酸突变。如前所述，MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，该突变基因所表达的蛋白也与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而通过检测上述多肽在生物样品中是否存在，可以有效地检测生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a polypeptide. According to an embodiment of the present invention, compared with the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide expressed by the wild-type MYO15A gene, the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide has the following mutations: amino acid mutations caused by p.Gln937Leufs*39 and/or p.Leu1894Pro mutations. As mentioned above, the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or c.5681T>C mutation of the MYO15A gene are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and the protein expressed by the mutant gene is also closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness. Further, by detecting whether the above-mentioned polypeptide exists in a biological sample, it is possible to effectively detect whether the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness. 检测前面所述的核酸、基因突变、多肽的试剂在制备试剂盒或设备中的用途Use of the reagents for detecting nucleic acids, gene mutations, and polypeptides described above in the preparation of kits or devices 在本发明的又一方面，本发明提出了前面所述的基因突变或前面所述的核酸或前面所述的多肽的试剂在制备试剂盒或者设备中的用途。根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂盒或者设备用于诊断非综合征型耳聋。如前所述，前面所述的基因突变、核酸、多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而检测前面所述的核酸或前面所述的基因突变或前面所述的多肽的试剂，可以用于制备试剂盒或者设备，所得到的试剂盒或者设备能有效筛选出患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of the reagent of the aforementioned gene mutation or the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned polypeptide in the preparation of a kit or device. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the kit or device is used to diagnose non-syndromic deafness. As mentioned above, the aforementioned gene mutation, nucleic acid, polypeptide and the onset of non-syndromic deafness are closely related, and then the reagent for detecting the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation or the aforementioned polypeptide can be used to prepare a kit or device, and the obtained kit or device can effectively screen out biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，所述非综合征型耳聋为常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the non-syndromic deafness is autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂包括特异性针对所述核酸、所述基因突变和所述多肽的至少之一的抗体、探针、引物以及质谱检测试剂的至少之一。例如，发明人可通过特异性识别所述多肽的抗体与所述多肽的特异性结合来检测待测样品中是否存在上述突变，即通过特异性抗体与抗原的相互作用来检测上述多肽是否存在；发明人还可以通过预先设计特异性识别所述核酸或基因突变的探针，通过探针与上述核酸或基因突变位点所在的核酸片段发生互补配对，来鉴别上述核酸或基因突变的存在；发明人还可以设计用于扩增上述基因突变所在外显子的特异性引物，进而通过基因扩增以及测序，确定上述基因突变是否存在；发明人还可以通过质谱来检测多肽的m/z来判断上述发生p.Gln937Leufs*39和/或p.Leu1894Pro突变引起的氨基酸突变的多肽是否存在。所提供的抗体、探针、引物以及质谱检测试剂的至少之一，能特异性、高灵敏性地筛选出前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变或者前面所述的多肽，进而特异性、高灵敏性地筛选出患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是患常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品，进而能有效用于制备筛选患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是患常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的试剂盒或者设备。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the reagent includes at least one of an antibody, a probe, a primer and a mass spectrometry detection reagent that is specific for at least one of the nucleic acid, the gene mutation and the polypeptide. For example, the inventor can detect whether the above mutation exists in the sample to be tested by the specific binding of the antibody that specifically recognizes the polypeptide to the polypeptide, that is, the presence of the above polypeptide is detected by the interaction between the specific antibody and the antigen; the inventor can also pre-design a probe that specifically recognizes the nucleic acid or gene mutation, and identify the presence of the above nucleic acid or gene mutation by complementary pairing between the probe and the nucleic acid fragment where the nucleic acid or gene mutation site is located; the inventor can also design specific primers for amplifying the exon where the above gene mutation is located, and then determine whether the above gene mutation exists by gene amplification and sequencing; the inventor can also use mass spectrometry to detect the m/z of the polypeptide to determine whether the polypeptide with amino acid mutation caused by p.Gln937Leufs*39 and/or p.Leu1894Pro mutation exists. At least one of the provided antibodies, probes, primers and mass spectrometry detection reagents can specifically and highly sensitively screen out the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation or the aforementioned polypeptide, and further specifically and highly sensitively screen out biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, and further can be effectively used to prepare a kit or device for screening biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 生物模型Biological Model 在本发明的另一方面，本发明提出了生物模型在筛选药物中的用途。根据本发明的实施例，所述生物模型携带下列至少之一：(1)前面所述的核酸；(2)前面所述的基因突变；(3)表达前面所述的多肽。根据所提供的生物模型，能有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。这些生物模型可以是细胞模型也可以是动物模型。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of biological models in drug screening. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the biological model carries at least one of the following: (1) the nucleic acid described above; (2) the gene mutation described above; (3) expresses the polypeptide described above. According to the provided biological model, it can be effectively used as a model for non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness related research. These biological models can be cell models or animal models. 试剂在制备药物中的用途Use of reagents in the preparation of drugs 在本发明的又一方面，本发明提出了特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂在制备药物中的用途，所述药物用于治疗非综合征型耳聋。需要说明的是，这里的特异性改变是指能使得突变的核酸或者基因突变的位点恢复到原来的野生状态或者其他不具有致病性的状态，而对于个体基因组的其他序列不产生实质影响。如前所述，前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，由此，由这些能够特异性改变前面所述的核酸或者前面所述的基因突变的试剂所制备的药物能有效用于治疗非综合征型耳聋。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes the use of reagents that specifically change the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation in the preparation of drugs, and the drugs are used to treat non-syndromic deafness. It should be noted that the specific change here refers to the ability to restore the mutated nucleic acid or the site of the gene mutation to the original wild state or other non-pathogenic state, without having a substantial effect on other sequences of the individual genome. As mentioned above, the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation is closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness. Therefore, drugs prepared by these reagents that can specifically change the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation can be effectively used to treat non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂为基于shRNA、反义核酸、核酶、显性负突变、CRISPR-Cas9、CRISPR-Cpf1和锌指核酸酶至少之一的试剂。例如，CRISPRs技术是一种由RNA指导Cas蛋白对靶向基因进行修饰的技术，CRISPR-Cas9主要通过基因敲除、特种变异的引入和定点转基因三种途径来实现基因组改造，基于CRISPR-Cas9的方法，发明人可以设计出sgRNA并合成该序列的gRNA，然后将gRNA与dCas9在细胞中共表达，通过gRNA介导dCas9蛋白与目标DNA区域结合，进而实现特定位点的修复或改变。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the reagent is a reagent based on at least one of shRNA, antisense nucleic acid, ribozyme, dominant negative mutation, CRISPR-Cas9, CRISPR-Cpf1 and zinc finger nuclease. For example, CRISPRs technology is a technology that guides Cas protein to modify targeted genes by RNA. CRISPR-Cas9 mainly achieves genome modification through three approaches: gene knockout, introduction of special mutations and site-directed transgenics. Based on the CRISPR-Cas9 method, the inventor can design sgRNA and synthesize gRNA of the sequence, and then co-express gRNA with dCas9 in cells, and mediate the binding of dCas9 protein to the target DNA region through gRNA, thereby achieving repair or change of specific sites. 构建体及重组细胞Constructs and recombinant cells 在本发明的又一个方面，本发明提出了一种构建体。根据本发明的实施例，所述构建体包含前面所述的核酸或前面所述的基因突变。将所提供的构建体转化受体细胞获得重组细胞，能够有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。其中，所述受体细胞的种类不受特别限制，例如可以为大肠杆菌细胞、哺乳动物细胞，优选该受体细胞来源于哺乳动物。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a construct. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the construct comprises the aforementioned nucleic acid or the aforementioned gene mutation. The provided construct is transformed into a receptor cell to obtain a recombinant cell, which can be effectively used as a model for non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. Wherein, the type of the receptor cell is not particularly limited, for example, it can be an Escherichia coli cell, a mammalian cell, and preferably the receptor cell is derived from a mammal. 在本发明中所使用的术语“构建体”是指这样的一种遗传载体，其包含特定核酸序列，并且能够将目的核酸序列转入宿主细胞中，以获得重组细胞。根据本发明的实施例，构建体的形式不受限制，其包括但不限于质粒、噬菌体、人工染色体、粘粒(Cosmid)、病毒中的至少一种，优选质粒。质粒作为遗传载体，具有操作简单，可以携带较大片段的性质，便于操作和处理。质粒的形式也不受特别限制，既可以是环形质粒，也可以是线性质粒，即可以是单链的，也可以是双链的。本领域技术人员可以根据需要进行选择。在本发明中所使用的术语“核酸”可以是任何包含脱氧核糖核苷酸或者核糖核苷酸的聚合物，包括但不限于经过修饰的或者未经修饰的DNA、RNA，其长度不受任何特别限制。对于用于构建重组细胞的构建体，优选所述核酸为DNA，因为DNA相对于RNA而言，其更稳定，并且易于操作。The term 'construct' used in the present invention refers to a genetic vector that contains a specific nucleic acid sequence and can transfer the target nucleic acid sequence into a host cell to obtain a recombinant cell. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the form of the construct is not limited, and includes but is not limited to at least one of a plasmid, a bacteriophage, an artificial chromosome, a cosmid, and a virus, preferably a plasmid. Plasmids, as genetic vectors, have simple operation and can carry the properties of larger fragments, which is convenient for operation and processing. The form of the plasmid is also not particularly limited, and can be either a circular plasmid or a linear plasmid, that is, it can be single-stranded or double-stranded. Those skilled in the art can select as needed. The term 'nucleic acid' used in the present invention can be any polymer containing deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides, including but not limited to modified or unmodified DNA, RNA, and its length is not subject to any particular restrictions. For constructs used to construct recombinant cells, it is preferred that the nucleic acid is DNA, because DNA is more stable and easy to operate relative to RNA. 在本发明的再一个方面，本发明提出了一种重组细胞。根据本发明的实施例，所述重组细胞是通过前面所述的构建体转化受体细胞获得的。根据本发明的一些实施例，本发明的重组细胞，能够有效地用作非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的相关研究的模型。In yet another aspect of the present invention, the present invention provides a recombinant cell. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the recombinant cell is obtained by transforming a recipient cell with the construct described above. According to some embodiments of the present invention, the recombinant cell of the present invention can be effectively used as a model for non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 根据本发明的实施例，受体细胞的种类不受特别限制，例如可以为大肠杆菌细胞、哺乳动物细胞，优选所述受体细胞来源于非人哺乳动物。According to an embodiment of the present invention, the type of the receptor cell is not particularly limited, and may be, for example, an Escherichia coli cell or a mammalian cell. Preferably, the receptor cell is derived from a non-human mammal. 检测非综合征型耳聋的试剂盒Test kit for detecting non-syndromic deafness 在本发明的另一个方面，本发明提出了一种检测非综合征型耳聋的试剂盒。根据本发明的实施例，所述试剂盒中包括检测前面所述的核酸的试剂，和/或检测前面所述的基因突变的试剂，和/或检测前面所述的多肽的试剂。如前所述，前面所述的核酸、基因突变、多肽与非综合征型耳聋的发病密切相关，进而能用于包含能有效地检测前面所述的核酸或前面所述的基因突变或前面所述的多肽的试剂的试剂盒能有效筛选出患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。In another aspect of the present invention, the present invention proposes a kit for detecting non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the kit includes a reagent for detecting the aforementioned nucleic acid, and/or a reagent for detecting the aforementioned gene mutation, and/or a reagent for detecting the aforementioned polypeptide. As mentioned above, the aforementioned nucleic acids, gene mutations, and polypeptides are closely related to the onset of non-syndromic deafness, and thus a kit containing reagents that can effectively detect the aforementioned nucleic acids or the aforementioned gene mutations or the aforementioned polypeptides can effectively screen out biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法Method for screening biological samples for non-syndromic deafness 除了上述内容之外，本发明还提出了一种筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法。根据本发明的实施例，所述方法包括以下步骤：In addition to the above, the present invention also proposes a method for screening biological samples for non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method comprises the following steps: 从生物样品提取核酸样本；Extracting nucleic acid samples from biological samples; 基于所述核酸样本，确定所述核酸样本的核酸序列；Based on the nucleic acid sample, determining the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample; 基于所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列，与野生型MYO15A基因相比是否具有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变，判断所述生物样品是否患非综合征型耳聋，其中，所述核酸样本的核酸序列或其互补序列，与野生型MYO15A基因相比有且仅有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和/或c.5681T>C突变，是所述生物样品患有非综合征型耳聋的指示。所提供的筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法，可以有效地筛选患非综合征型耳聋，尤其是常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。Based on whether the nucleic acid sequence or its complementary sequence of the nucleic acid sample has c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or c.5681T>C mutation compared with the wild-type MYO15A gene, it is judged whether the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness, wherein the nucleic acid sequence or its complementary sequence of the nucleic acid sample has and only has c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and/or c.5681T>C mutation compared with the wild-type MYO15A gene, which is an indication that the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness. The provided method for screening biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness can effectively screen biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness, especially autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 首先，从生物样品提取核酸样本。根据本发明的实施例，生物样品的类型并不受特别限制，只要从该生物样品中能够提取到反映生物样品MYO15A基因是否存在突变的核酸样本即可。根据本发明的实施例，生物样品可以为选自人体血液、皮肤、皮下组织的至少一种。由此，可以方便地进行取样和检测，从而能够进一步提高筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的效率。根据本发明的实施例，这里所使用的术语“核酸样本”应做广义理解，其可以是任何能够反映生物样品中MYO15A基因是否存在突变的样本，例如可以是从生物样品中直接提取的全基因组DNA，也可以是该全基因组中包含MYO15A基因编码序列的一部分，可以是从生物样品中提取的总RNA，也可以是从生物样品中提取的mRNA。根据本发明的一个实施例，所述核酸样本为全基因组DNA。由此，可以扩大生物样品的来源范围，并且可以同时对生物样品的多种信息进行确定，从而能够提高筛选患非综合征型遗传性耳聋的生物样品的效率。另外，根据本发明的实施例，针对采用RNA作为核酸样本，从生物样品提取核酸样本可以进一步包括：从生物样品提取RNA样本，优选RNA样本为mRNA；以及基于所得到的RNA样本，通过反转录反应，获得cDNA样本，所得到的cDNA样本构成核酸样本。由此，可以进一步提高利用RNA作为核酸样本筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的效率。First, a nucleic acid sample is extracted from a biological sample. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the type of biological sample is not particularly limited, as long as a nucleic acid sample reflecting whether the MYO15A gene of the biological sample has a mutation can be extracted from the biological sample. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the biological sample can be at least one selected from human blood, skin, and subcutaneous tissue. Thus, sampling and detection can be conveniently performed, thereby further improving the efficiency of screening biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the term 'nucleic acid sample' used herein should be understood in a broad sense, and it can be any sample that can reflect whether the MYO15A gene in the biological sample has a mutation, for example, it can be a whole genome DNA directly extracted from the biological sample, or it can be a part of the whole genome containing the MYO15A gene coding sequence, it can be a total RNA extracted from the biological sample, or it can be an mRNA extracted from the biological sample. According to one embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid sample is a whole genome DNA. Thus, the source range of the biological sample can be expanded, and multiple information of the biological sample can be determined at the same time, thereby improving the efficiency of screening biological samples suffering from non-syndromic hereditary deafness. In addition, according to an embodiment of the present invention, for using RNA as a nucleic acid sample, extracting a nucleic acid sample from a biological sample may further include: extracting an RNA sample from the biological sample, preferably the RNA sample is mRNA; and obtaining a cDNA sample through a reverse transcription reaction based on the obtained RNA sample, wherein the obtained cDNA sample constitutes a nucleic acid sample. Thus, the efficiency of using RNA as a nucleic acid sample to screen biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness can be further improved. 对所得到的核酸样本进行分析，从而能够确定所得到核酸样本的核酸序列。根据本发明的实施例，确定所得到核酸样本的核酸序列的方法和设备并不受特别限制。根据本发明的具体实施例，可以通过测序方法，确定核酸样本的核酸序列。可以用于进行测序的方法和设备并不受特别限制，例如可以采用第二代测序技术，也可以采用第三代以及第四代或者更先进的测序技术。根据本发明的具体实施例，可以利用选BGISEQ-500、BGISEQ-500RS、HISEQ2000、SOLiD、454和单分子测序装置的至少一种对核酸序列进行测序。由此，结合最新的测序技术，针对单个位点可以达到较高的测序深度，检测灵敏度和准确性大大提高，因而能够利用这些测序装置的高通量、深度测序的特点，进一步提高对核酸样本进行检测分析的效率。从而，能够提高后续对测序数据进行分析时的精确性和准确度。由此，根据本发明的实施例，确定核酸样本的核酸序列可以进一步包括：首先，针对所得到的核酸样本，构建核酸测序文库；以及对所得到的核酸测序文库进行测序，以便获得由多个测序数据构成的测序结果。根据本发明的一些实施例，可以采用选自BGISEQ-500、BGISEQ-500RS、HISEQ2000、SOLiD、454和单分子测序装置的至少一种对所得到的核酸测序文库进行测序。另外，根据本发明的实施例，可以对核酸样本进行筛选，富集MYO15A基因外显子，该筛选富集可以在构建测序文库之前，构建测序文库过程中，或者构建测序文库之后进行。可以采用外显子靶向序列富集系统如：华大自主外显子捕获芯片，Aglient SureSelect，Nimblegen等其他外显子或目标区域捕获平台，对目标片段进行富集。根据本发明的一个实施例，针对核酸样本，构建核酸测序文库进一步包括：利用选自MYO15A基因特异性引物的至少一种，对核酸样本进行PCR扩增；以及针对所得到的扩增产物，构建核酸测序文库。由此，可以通过PCR扩增，富集MYO15A基因外显子，从而能够进一步提高筛选患非综合征型遗传性耳聋的生物样品的效率。根据本发明的实施例，MYO15A基因特异性引物的序列不受特别限制，例如可以参考人类基因组序列数据库GRCh37.1/hg19，采用Primer3.0在线设计获得，例如可以参考UCSC(http://genome.ucsc.edu/)，应用Primer3(version 0.4.0,http://primer3.ut.ee/)设计候选基因的引物并合成(生工生物工程公司合成)，并利用Primer-BLAST(http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/tools/primer-blast/)验证引物特异性。The obtained nucleic acid sample is analyzed so as to determine the nucleic acid sequence of the obtained nucleic acid sample. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method and device for determining the nucleic acid sequence of the obtained nucleic acid sample are not particularly limited. According to a specific embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample can be determined by a sequencing method. The method and device that can be used for sequencing are not particularly limited, for example, second-generation sequencing technology can be used, and third-generation and fourth-generation or more advanced sequencing technology can also be used. According to a specific embodiment of the present invention, at least one of BGISEQ-500, BGISEQ-500RS, HISEQ2000, SOLiD, 454 and single-molecule sequencing devices can be used to sequence the nucleic acid sequence. Thus, in combination with the latest sequencing technology, a higher sequencing depth can be achieved for a single site, and the detection sensitivity and accuracy are greatly improved, so that the high-throughput and deep sequencing characteristics of these sequencing devices can be used to further improve the efficiency of detecting and analyzing nucleic acid samples. Thus, the precision and accuracy of subsequent analysis of sequencing data can be improved. Thus, according to an embodiment of the present invention, determining the nucleic acid sequence of a nucleic acid sample may further include: first, constructing a nucleic acid sequencing library for the obtained nucleic acid sample; and sequencing the obtained nucleic acid sequencing library to obtain a sequencing result consisting of a plurality of sequencing data. According to some embodiments of the present invention, the obtained nucleic acid sequencing library may be sequenced using at least one selected from BGISEQ-500, BGISEQ-500RS, HISEQ2000, SOLiD, 454 and a single molecule sequencing device. In addition, according to an embodiment of the present invention, the nucleic acid sample may be screened to enrich the MYO15A gene exons, and the screening and enrichment may be performed before constructing the sequencing library, during the construction of the sequencing library, or after constructing the sequencing library. Exon targeted sequence enrichment systems such as BGI's autonomous exon capture chip, Aglient SureSelect, Nimblegen and other exon or target region capture platforms may be used to enrich the target fragments. According to one embodiment of the present invention, for nucleic acid samples, constructing a nucleic acid sequencing library further includes: using at least one selected from MYO15A gene-specific primers to perform PCR amplification on the nucleic acid sample; and constructing a nucleic acid sequencing library for the obtained amplified product. Thus, MYO15A gene exons can be enriched by PCR amplification, thereby further improving the efficiency of screening biological samples for non-syndromic hereditary deafness. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the sequence of the MYO15A gene-specific primer is not particularly limited, for example, it can refer to the human genome sequence database GRCh37.1/hg19, and Primer3.0 online design is obtained, for example, it can refer to UCSC (http://genome.ucsc.edu/), apply Primer3 (version 0.4.0, http://primer3.ut.ee/) to design the primers of the candidate gene and synthesize (synthesized by Sangon Biotech Co., Ltd.), and use Primer-BLAST (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/tools/primer-blast/) to verify the primer specificity. 针对核酸样本，构建测序文库的方法和流程，本领域技术人员可以根据不同的测序技术进行适当选择，关于流程的细节，可以参见测序仪器的厂商例如Illumina公司所提供的规程，例如参见Illumina公司Multiplexing Sample Preparation Guide(Part#1005361；Feb2010)或Paired-End SamplePrep Guide(Part#1005063；Feb 2010)，通过参照将其并入本文。根据本发明的实施例，从生物样品提取核酸样本的方法和设备，也不受特别限制，可以采用商品化的核酸提取试剂盒进行。For nucleic acid samples, the method and process of constructing a sequencing library can be appropriately selected by those skilled in the art according to different sequencing technologies. For details of the process, reference can be made to the procedures provided by the manufacturer of the sequencing instrument, such as Illumina, for example, see Illumina's Multiplexing Sample Preparation Guide (Part#1005361; Feb 2010) or Paired-End Sample Prep Guide (Part#1005063; Feb 2010), which are incorporated herein by reference. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method and apparatus for extracting nucleic acid samples from biological samples are not particularly limited, and can be performed using a commercial nucleic acid extraction kit. 需要说明的是，在这里所使用的术语“核酸序列”应作广义理解，其可以是在对核酸样本进行测序得到的测序数据进行组装后，得到的完整的核酸序列信息，也可以是直接采用通过对核酸样本进行测序所得到的测序数据(reads)作为核酸序列，只要这些核酸序列中含有对应MYO15A基因的编码序列即可。It should be noted that the term 'nucleic acid sequence' used here should be understood in a broad sense. It can be the complete nucleic acid sequence information obtained after assembling the sequencing data obtained by sequencing the nucleic acid sample, or it can be the sequencing data (reads) obtained by sequencing the nucleic acid sample directly as the nucleic acid sequence, as long as these nucleic acid sequences contain the coding sequence corresponding to the MYO15A gene. 最后，在确定核酸样本的核酸序列之后，将所得到的核酸序列与参考序列进行比对，当所得到的核酸序列中具有前述的突变时，即指示生物样品患非综合征型耳聋。由此，通过根据本发明实施例的筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法，可以有效地筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品。根据本发明的实施例，对核酸序列与相应野生型基因序列进行比对的方法和设备并不受特别限制，可以采用任意常规的软件进行操作，根据本发明的具体实例，可以采用SOAPALIGNER/SOAP2进行比对。Finally, after determining the nucleic acid sequence of the nucleic acid sample, the obtained nucleic acid sequence is compared with the reference sequence. When the obtained nucleic acid sequence has the aforementioned mutation, it indicates that the biological sample suffers from non-syndromic deafness. Thus, by using the method for screening biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness according to an embodiment of the present invention, biological samples suffering from non-syndromic deafness can be effectively screened. According to an embodiment of the present invention, the method and device for comparing a nucleic acid sequence with a corresponding wild-type gene sequence are not particularly limited, and can be operated using any conventional software. According to a specific example of the present invention, SOAPALIGNER/SOAP2 can be used for comparison. 需要说明的是，根据本发明实施例的“筛选患非综合征型耳聋的生物样品的方法”的用途不受特别限制，例如可以用作非诊断目的的筛选方法，例如用作科研或者其他试剂盒的生产工艺等应用中。It should be noted that the use of the 'method for screening biological samples for non-syndromic deafness' according to an embodiment of the present invention is not particularly limited. For example, it can be used as a screening method for non-diagnostic purposes, such as in scientific research or other kit production processes. 下面将结合实施例对本发明的方案进行解释。本领域技术人员将会理解，下面的实施例仅用于说明本发明，而不应视为限定本发明的范围。实施例中未注明具体技术或条件的，按照本领域内的文献所描述的技术或条件或者按照产品说明书进行。所用试剂或仪器未注明生产厂商者，均为可以通过市购获得的常规产品。The scheme of the present invention will be explained below in conjunction with the embodiments. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the following embodiments are only used to illustrate the present invention and should not be considered as limiting the scope of the present invention. Where specific techniques or conditions are not indicated in the embodiments, the techniques or conditions described in the literature in this area or the product specifications are used. The reagents or instruments used are not indicated by the manufacturer and are all conventional products that can be obtained commercially. 实施例1确定常染色体隐性耳聋致病突变Example 1 Determination of autosomal recessive deafness-causing mutations 1、样本搜集1. Sample collection 发明人搜集到一个中国汉族常染色体隐性非综合征型耳聋患者Trio家系(父母+先证者)，其家系图见图1。如图1所示，该家系包含3名成员，女儿为耳聋患者(即家系图中的II-1)、父母为正常人(即家系图中的I-1、I-2)，符合常染色体隐性遗传模式。其中，实心图标为患者，半实心图标为携带者，箭头所指为先证者。The inventor collected a Chinese Han autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness patient Trio pedigree (parents + proband), and the pedigree is shown in Figure 1. As shown in Figure 1, the pedigree includes 3 members, the daughter is a deaf patient (i.e., II-1 in the pedigree), and the parents are normal people (i.e., I-1 and I-2 in the pedigree), which conforms to the autosomal recessive inheritance model. Among them, the solid icon is the patient, the half-solid icon is the carrier, and the arrow points to the proband. 该家系中患者的听力结果见图2。在图2中，横坐标表示听力的频率，纵坐标表示听力级别，如果听力正常，阈值曲线应该是在0附近浮动。如图2所示，听力图提示患者II-1双耳重度耳聋。The hearing results of the patients in this family are shown in Figure 2. In Figure 2, the horizontal axis represents the frequency of hearing, and the vertical axis represents the hearing level. If the hearing is normal, the threshold curve should float around 0. As shown in Figure 2, the audiogram shows that patient II-1 has severe hearing loss in both ears. 发明人收集该家系内所有成员的外周血样，加入EDTA抗凝，-80摄氏度保存。所有血样均已签属知情同意书。The inventor collected peripheral blood samples from all members of the family, added EDTA for anticoagulation, and stored at -80 degrees Celsius. All blood samples were signed with informed consent. 2、DNA提取2. DNA Extraction 取上述家系所有成员的外周血，分别利用QIAmp Bloodkit(Qiagen,Hilden,Germany)抽提外周血白细胞的基因组DNA，并利用QubitFluorometer和琼脂糖凝胶电泳测量DNA的浓度及纯度，所得的每个标本基因组DNA OD260/OD280均位于1.7-2.0之间，浓度不少于50纳克/微升，总量不少于3微克。Peripheral blood was obtained from all family members, and genomic DNA of peripheral blood leukocytes was extracted using QIAmp Blood kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). The concentration and purity of the DNA were measured using Qubit Fluorometer and agarose gel electrophoresis. The OD260/OD280 of the genomic DNA of each specimen was between 1.7 and 2.0, the concentration was not less than 50 ng/μl, and the total amount was not less than 3 μg. 3、捕获测序3. Capture sequencing 利用Agilent等液相捕获系统，结合Illumina Hiseq2500的高通量测序技术，对所有家系成员的样本进行测序。捕获范围包括全基因组外显子区域(约占全基因组1％)，捕获区域总长可达50M，测序数据量10-12Gb，100×有效测序深度。主要步骤包括打断、文库制备和上机测序。Using Agilent and other liquid phase capture systems, combined with Illumina Hiseq2500 high-throughput sequencing technology, samples from all family members were sequenced. The capture range includes the exon region of the whole genome (about 1% of the whole genome), the total length of the capture region can reach 50M, the sequencing data volume is 10-12Gb, and the effective sequencing depth is 100×. The main steps include fragmentation, library preparation and sequencing. 测序数据下机后，使用内部定制流程进行变异检测、注释以及数据库比对，根据人群频率、软件预测结果、家系分析等手段，确定候选致病位点。After the sequencing data is downloaded from the machine, an internal customized process is used to perform variant detection, annotation, and database comparison, and candidate pathogenic sites are determined based on population frequency, software prediction results, family analysis, and other means. 结果在患者的MYO15A基因上发现复合杂合c.[2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC]；[5681T>C]突变。家系分析显示，患者的父亲和母亲分别为c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC和c.5681T>C突变的杂合携带者。Results Compound heterozygous c.[2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC];[5681T>C] mutations were found in the patient's MYO15A gene. Family analysis showed that the patient's father and mother were heterozygous carriers of c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC and c.5681T>C mutations, respectively. 根据MYO15A基因相关耳聋的隐性遗传模式，若c.[2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC]；[5681T>C]突变经Sanger验证为真阳性，则上述两个构成复合杂合的变异可以基本确认为患者的耳聋致病原因。According to the recessive inheritance pattern of MYO15A gene-related deafness, if the c.[2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC];[5681T>C] mutation is verified as a true positive by Sanger, the above two compound heterozygous mutations can be basically confirmed as the cause of the patient's deafness. 实施例2 Sanger法测序验证Example 2 Sanger sequencing verification 分别对实施例1中所述的常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋患者家系中的所有家系成员(包括患者和听力正常的父母)的MYO15A基因进行检测：针对MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC和c.5681T>C突变设计引物，然后通过PCR扩增、产物纯化和测序的方法获得突变位点有关序列，根据确定序列测定结果属于突变型还是野生型，验证MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC和c.5681T>C突变是否在样本中检出。The MYO15A gene of all family members (including patients and parents with normal hearing) in the autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness patient family described in Example 1 was tested separately: primers were designed for the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC and c.5681T>C mutations of the MYO15A gene, and then the relevant sequences of the mutation sites were obtained by PCR amplification, product purification and sequencing. According to whether the sequence determination results belonged to the mutant type or the wild type, it was verified whether the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC and c.5681T>C mutations of the MYO15A gene were detected in the sample. 具体步骤如下：The specific steps are as follows: 1、DNA提取1. DNA extraction 按照实施例1所述的DNA提取方法，提取受试者外周静脉血中的基因组DNA备用。According to the DNA extraction method described in Example 1, genomic DNA is extracted from the peripheral venous blood of the subject for later use. 2、引物设计及PCR反应2. Primer design and PCR reaction 首先，参考人类基因组参考序列GRCh37/hg19，分别针对MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC和c.5681T>C突变设计特异性引物，具体序列如下：First, referring to the human genome reference sequence GRCh37/hg19, specific primers were designed for the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC and c.5681T>C mutations of the MYO15A gene. The specific sequences are as follows: MYO15A C.2802_2812del上游引物TCCCTGAATCTGCCCTCG(PRIMER SEQ3 F1)MYO15A C.2802_2812del upstream primer TCCCTGAATCTGCCCTCG (PRIMER SEQ3 F1) MYO15A C.2802_2812del下游引物GGTGTCTGCCCAGGAAGA(PRIMER SEQ3 R1)MYO15A C.2802_2812del downstream primer GGTGTCTGCCCAGGAAGA (PRIMER SEQ3 R1) MYO15A c.5681T>C上游引物GCCCTGCCTATTCTGTCTCC(PRIMER SEQ4 F1)MYO15A c.5681T>C upstream primer GCCCTGCCTATTCTGTCTCC (PRIMER SEQ4 F1) MYO15A c.5681T>C下游引物ATCCTGCCTTTTCTGTGCCT(PRIMER SEQ4 R1)MYO15A c.5681T>C downstream primer ATCCTGCCTTTTCTGTGCCT (PRIMER SEQ4 R1) 然后，按照以下配比配制各DNA样本的PCR反应体系以及进行PCR反应：Then, prepare the PCR reaction system of each DNA sample according to the following ratio and perform the PCR reaction: 反应体系(20μl)：Reaction system (20 μl): PCR反应条件：PCR reaction conditions: 由此，获得各受试者基因组DNA样本的PCR扩增产物。Thus, the PCR amplification products of the genomic DNA samples of each subject were obtained. 3、Sanger测序3. Sanger sequencing 将步骤2得到的PCR产物经纯化后，直接进行DNA测序，测序使用ABI3730XL型测序仪进行正反向测序。After purification, the PCR product obtained in step 2 was directly subjected to DNA sequencing using an ABI3730XL sequencer for forward and reverse sequencing. 基于测序结果，如图3、4所示，在所示的常染色体隐性耳聋患者Trio家系中，患者同时携带MYO15A基因的c.5681T>C和c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变，听力正常的父亲和母亲分别为c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC突变和c.5681T>C突变的杂合携带者。Based on the sequencing results, as shown in Figures 3 and 4 , in the Trio family of patients with autosomal recessive deafness shown, the patients carried both the c.5681T>C and c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutations of the MYO15A gene, and the father and mother with normal hearing were heterozygous carriers of the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC mutation and the c.5681T>C mutation, respectively. 结合以上信息，可以确认MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC和c.5681T>C突变所构成的复合杂合基因型是这个隐性耳聋家系中，耳聋患者II-1的致病原因。Combining the above information, it can be confirmed that the compound heterozygous genotype composed of the c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC and c.5681T>C mutations of the MYO15A gene is the cause of the deafness in patient II-1 in this recessive deafness family. 实施例3检测试剂盒Example 3 Detection Kit 制备一检测试剂盒，其包含能够检测MYO15A基因的c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC和c.5681T>C突变的引物，用于筛选易患常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋的生物样品，其中，这些引物为MYO15A基因特异性引物，其序列如实施例2中PRIMER SEQ3 F1、PRIMER SEQ3 F2、PRIMER SEQ4 R1、PRIMER SEQ4 R2所示。A detection kit was prepared, comprising primers capable of detecting c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC and c.5681T>C mutations of the MYO15A gene, for screening biological samples susceptible to autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, wherein these primers are MYO15A gene-specific primers, and their sequences are shown in PRIMER SEQ3 F1, PRIMER SEQ3 F2, PRIMER SEQ4 R1, and PRIMER SEQ4 R2 in Example 2. 利用上述试剂盒筛选易患常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋的生物样品的具体步骤为：The specific steps of using the above kit to screen biological samples susceptible to autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness are: 按照实施例1的步骤2所述的方法提取待测者DNA，以所提取的DNA为模板与上述MYO15A基因的特异性引物进行PCR反应(PCR反应体系和反应条件参见实施例2)，并按照本领域常规方法对PCR产物纯化，将纯化的产物进行测序，然后通过观察测序所得到的序列是否具有c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC和c.5681T>C突变，能够有效地检测本发明的MYO15A基因突变体在待测者DNA中是否存在，从而能够有效地检测待测者是否易患常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋，进一步，能够从待测者中筛选出易患常染色体隐性非综合型耳聋的生物样品。The DNA of the subject is extracted according to the method described in step 2 of Example 1, and a PCR reaction is performed with the specific primers of the MYO15A gene using the extracted DNA as a template (see Example 2 for the PCR reaction system and reaction conditions), and the PCR product is purified according to conventional methods in the art, and the purified product is sequenced, and then by observing whether the sequence obtained by sequencing has c.2802_2812delTCCCACCCAAC and c.5681T>C mutations, it is possible to effectively detect whether the MYO15A gene mutant of the present invention is present in the DNA of the subject, thereby effectively detecting whether the subject is susceptible to autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness, and further, biological samples susceptible to autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness can be screened from the subject. 在本说明书的描述中，参考术语“一个实施例”、“一些实施例”、“示例”、“具体示例”、或“一些示例”等的描述意指结合该实施例或示例描述的具体特征、结构、材料或者特点包含于本发明的至少一个实施例或示例中。在本说明书中，对上述术语的示意性表述不必须针对的是相同的实施例或示例。而且，描述的具体特征、结构、材料或者特点可以在任一个或多个实施例或示例中以合适的方式结合。此外，在不相互矛盾的情况下，本领域的技术人员可以将本说明书中描述的不同实施例或示例以及不同实施例或示例的特征进行结合和组合。In the description of this specification, the description with reference to the terms 'one embodiment', 'some embodiments', 'example', 'specific example', or 'some examples' etc. means that the specific features, structures, materials or characteristics described in conjunction with the embodiment or example are included in at least one embodiment or example of the present invention. In this specification, the schematic representations of the above terms do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment or example. Moreover, the specific features, structures, materials or characteristics described may be combined in any one or more embodiments or examples in a suitable manner. In addition, those skilled in the art may combine and combine the different embodiments or examples described in this specification and the features of the different embodiments or examples, without contradiction. 尽管上面已经示出和描述了本发明的实施例，可以理解的是，上述实施例是示例性的，不能理解为对本发明的限制，本领域的普通技术人员在本发明的范围内可以对上述实施例进行变化、修改、替换和变型。Although the embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described above, it is to be understood that the above embodiments are exemplary and are not to be construed as limitations of the present invention. A person skilled in the art may change, modify, replace and vary the above embodiments within the scope of the present invention. SEQUENCE LISTINGSEQUENCE LISTING <110> 深圳华大基因股份有限公司，华中科技大学同济医学院附属协和医院<110> Shenzhen BGI Co., Ltd., Union Hospital Affiliated to Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology <120> MYO15A基因突变体及其应用<120> MYO15A gene mutant and its application <130> PIDC3202286<130> PIDC3202286 <160> 6<160> 6 <170> PatentIn version 3.3<170> PatentIn version 3.3 <210> 1<210> 1 <211> 400<211> 400 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial<213> Artificial <220><220> <223> 1<223> 1 <400> 1<400> 1 tccctgaatc tgccctcgcg cctcccgcac acgtggcggc gcctcagcga gccacccact 60tccctgaatc tgccctcgcg cctcccgcac acgtggcggc gcctcagcga gccacccact 60 cgggctgtga agccgcaagt gcgcctgccc ttccaccgac cgcccagggc cggggcctgg 120cgggctgtga agccgcaagt gcgcctgccc ttccaccgac cgcccagggc cggggcctgg 120 cgggcgcccc tggaacaccg ggagagcccg cgagaacccg aggactcaga gacgccctgg 180cgggcgcccc tggaacaccg ggagagcccg cgagaacccg aggactcaga gacgccctgg 180 actgtgcccc cactggcccc cagctgggac gtggacatgc ctcccaccca acgcccaccc 240actgtgcccc cactggcccc cagctgggac gtggacatgc ctcccaccca acgcccaccc 240 tccccctggc caggaggtgc aggcagccgc cgaggctttt ccaggccacc ccctgtgccg 300tccccctggc caggaggtgc aggcagccgc cgaggctttt ccaggccacc ccctgtgccg 300 gaaaacccct ttctccagct cctgggccct gtgccatccc ccaccctcca gcctgaggat 360gaaaacccct ttctccagct cctgggccct gtgccatccc ccaccctcca gcctgaggat 360 ccagctgctg atatgaccag ggtcttcctg ggcagacacc 400ccagctgctg atatgaccag ggtcttcctg ggcagacacc 400 <210> 2<210> 2 <211> 298<211> 298 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial<213> Artificial <220><220> <223> 2<223> 2 <400> 2<400> 2 gccctgccta ttctgtctcc acggacttct agagagggag gggcccttag tccagcctcc 60gccctgccta ttctgtctcc acggacttct agagaggggag gggcccttag tccagcctcc 60 tggctcctat ctgcctcagt gccttcctcc tgtccttagc tgttccttaa ggaacaccta 120tggctcctat ctgcctcagt gccttcctcc tgtccttagc tgttccttaa ggaacaccta 120 taccagctgc tggagagtat gcgagagcat gtcctgaatc tggcagccct cactctgcag 180taccagctgc tggagagtat gcgagagcat gtcctgaatc tggcagccct cactctgcag 180 cgctgcctcc gtggcttctt cattaagcgg cgattccgct ctctgcgcca caagatcatc 240cgctgcctcc gtggcttctt cattaagcgg cgattccgct ctctgcgcca caagatcatc 240 ctgctgcaaa gccgggcccg tggctacctt gccaggtgag gcacagaaaa ggcaggat 298ctgctgcaaa gccgggcccg tggctacctt gccaggtgag gcacagaaaa ggcaggat 298 <210> 3<210> 3 <211> 18<211> 18 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial<213> Artificial <220><220> <223> 3<223> 3 <400> 3<400> 3 tccctgaatc tgccctcg 18tccctgaatc tgccctcg 18 <210> 4<210> 4 <211> 18<211> 18 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial<213> Artificial <220><220> <223> 4<223> 4 <400> 4<400> 4 ggtgtctgcc caggaaga 18ggtgtctgcc caggaaga 18 <210> 5<210> 5 <211> 20<211> 20 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial<213> Artificial <220><220> <223> 5<223> 5 <400> 5<400> 5 gccctgccta ttctgtctcc 20gccctgccta ttctgtctcc 20 <210> 6<210> 6 <211> 20<211> 20 <212> DNA<212> DNA <213> Artificial<213> Artificial <220><220> <223> 6<223> 6 <400> 6<400> 6 atcctgcctt ttctgtgcct 20atcctgcctt ttctgtgcct 20

### Claims

Claims (3) 1. Use of a reagent for detecting a gene mutation, said gene mutation being a c.2802_2812DELTCCCACCCAAC mutation and a c.5681t > C mutation compared to a wild-type MYO15A gene, said wild-type MYO15A gene having an accession number nm_016239.4 in the NCBI database, in the preparation of a kit for diagnosing autosomal recessive non-syndromic deafness. 2. The use according to claim 1, wherein the reagent comprises at least one of a probe, a primer specific for the gene mutation. 3. Use according to claim 2, characterized in that the sequence of the primer is as follows: MYO15A c.2802_2812del upstream primer: TCCCTGAATCTGCCCTCG; MYO15A c.2802_2812del downstream primer: GGTGTCTGCCCAGGAAGA; MYO15A c.5681t > C upstream primer: GCCCTGCCTATTCTGTCTCC; MYO15A c.5681t > C downstream primer: ATCCTGCCTTTTCTGTGCCT.
