## Patent Reference

- Title: Method for assessing risk of producing a severe response to coronavirus infection
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN116134152A/en

### Abstract

Abstract The present disclosure relates to methods and systems for assessing a human subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, such as a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) virus infection.

### Description

Description Method for assessing risk of producing a severe response to coronavirus infectionTechnical Field The present disclosure relates to methods and systems for assessing a human subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, such as a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) virus infection. Background In recent years, the World Health Organization (WHO) reported a series of cases of pneumonia of unknown cause, and named a new virus 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV). On 11 months 2020, WHO formally named 2019-nCoV-initiated disease as coronavirus disease 2019 (covd-19). The coronavirus research group of the International Commission on classification of viruses (the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses) designated 2019-nCoV as Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). WHO announced the virus as an international public health emergency (Public Health Emergency of International Concern) on day 1 and 30 of 2020. WHO finally announced pandemic at 11, 3 months 2020. As with many complex diseases, once infected with a virus, there are many host factors that affect the severity of the disease. This means that viral infections are complex multifactorial diseases such as many cancers, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. As the global health system attempts to manage resources and governments attempt to manage the respective economies, it is necessary to identify which persons are at risk of developing severe symptoms most likely to respond to viral infection. Such a tool would enable earlier hospitalization and targeted therapy, which could save lives. It is very important for economy that if an individual at lower risk is infected with a coronavirus, such as SARS-Cov-2 virus infection, it is possible to suggest that the individual continues to normally employment given the lower risk of developing life threatening diseases. Disclosure of Invention The inventors have found that a severe response to a coronavirus infection risk model provides a useful risk discrimination for assessing a subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, such as a SARS-CoV-2 infection. In one aspect, the invention provides a method for assessing the risk of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising performing a genetic risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the genetic risk assessment involves detecting the presence of at least two polymorphisms associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection in a biological sample derived from the human subject. In one embodiment, the coronavirus is an alpha coronavirus, a beta coronavirus, a gamma coronavirus, or a delta coronavirus. In one embodiment, the coronavirus is an alpha coronavirus 1, a human coronavirus 229E, a human coronavirus NL63, a long wing bat coronavirus 1 (Miniopterus bat coronavirus 1), a long wing bat coronavirus HKU8, a porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus), a chrysanthemum bat coronavirus HKU2 (hinolophus bat coronavirus HKU), a Huang Fu bat coronavirus 512 (Scotophilus bat coronavirus), a beta coronavirus 1 (bovine coronavirus, human coronavirus OC 43), a hedgehog coronavirus 1, a human coronavirus HKU1, a midfoot respiratory syndrome related coronavirus (MERS), a murine coronavirus, a volt bat coronavirus HKU5 (Pipistrellus bat coronavirus HKU), a fruit bat coronavirus HKU9 (Rousettus bat coronavirus HKU), a severe acute respiratory syndrome related coronavirus (SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2), a cranial bat coronavirus HKU4 (Tylonycteris bat coronavirus HKU), an avian coronavirus, SW1, a whale coronavirus, or a noctovis 11 coronavirus. In one embodiment, the coronavirus is severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2), middle east respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (MERS), human coronavirus OC43, human coronavirus HKU1, human coronavirus 229E, or human coronavirus NL63. In one embodiment, the coronavirus is a beta coronavirus. In one embodiment, the beta coronavirus is severe acute respiratory syndrome associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2), middle east respiratory syndrome associated coronavirus (MERS), human coronavirus OC43, or human coronavirus HKU1. In one embodiment, the coronavirus (β -coronavirus) is a severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2), middle east respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (MERS), human coronavirus OC43, or human coronavirus HKU1. In one embodiment, the coronavirus (β -coronavirus) is a severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2) or a middle east respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (MERS). In a preferred embodiment, the coronavirus (β coronavirus) is severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). In one embodiment, the method comprises detecting the presence of at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 polymorphisms associated with severe response to a coronavirus infection. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is selected from tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the method comprises at least detecting a polymorphism at or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more or all of rs10755709, rs112317747, rs112641600, rs118072448, rs2034831, rs7027911 and rs 71481792. In one embodiment, the method comprises at least detecting a polymorphism at or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more or all of rs10755709, rs112317747, rs112641600, rs115492982, rs118072448, rs1984162, rs2034831, rs7027911, and rs 71481792. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is selected from the group consisting of a polymorphism in Table 1, table 6a, table 6b, or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is selected from any one of tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is selected from table 3 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, at least three polymorphisms are analyzed. In an embodiment, the method comprises or consists of: detecting the presence of at least 60 or each of the polymorphisms provided in table 4 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In another embodiment, the polymorphism is selected from table 2 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In another embodiment, the polymorphism is selected from the group consisting of a polymorphism in Table 3 and/or Table 8 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is selected from table 3 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In an embodiment, the method comprises or consists of: detecting the presence of each of the polymorphisms provided in table 3 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. The genetic risk assessment may be combined with clinical risk factors to further improve risk analysis. Thus, in an embodiment, the method further comprises: performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject; and combining the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment to obtain a risk of a human subject that is severely responsive to a coronavirus infection. In an embodiment, the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about, but not necessarily limited to, one or more of: age, family history of severe response to coronavirus infection, race/ethnicity, sex, body mass index, total cholesterol level, systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure, smoking status, whether the human is suffering from diabetes, whether the human is suffering from cardiovascular disease, whether the subject is taking hypertensive drugs, loss of taste, loss of sense of smell, and white blood cell count. In another embodiment, the clinical risk assessment is based solely on one or more or all of the following: age, body mass index, loss of taste, loss of smell, and smoking status. In another embodiment, the clinical risk assessment is based solely on one or more or all of the following: age, loss of taste, loss of smell, and smoking status. In an embodiment, the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about one or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, blood type, whether the human has or has suffered from autoimmune disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, and whether the human has or has suffered from respiratory disease (in addition to asthma). In one embodiment, the autoimmune disease is rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, or psoriasis. In an embodiment, the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about one or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, blood type, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). The skilled artisan will appreciate that many different procedures may be followed to combine clinical risk assessment and genetic risk assessment. In an embodiment, combining the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment comprises multiplying the risk assessments. In an embodiment, combining the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment comprises adding the risk assessments. The present inventors have for the first time identified a number of polymorphisms associated with a subject's risk of developing a severe response to coronavirus infection. Thus, in a further aspect, the present invention provides a method for assessing the risk of a human subject to develop a severe response to coronavirus, the method comprising detecting the presence of a polymorphism provided in any one of tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22, or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith, in a biological sample derived from the human subject. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is provided in tables 19 and/or 22, or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is provided in tables 1 and 6a, or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is provided in tables 3 and 6a, or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is provided in tables 3, 6, is rs2274122, rs1868132, rs11729561, rs1984162, rs8105499, or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. In one embodiment, the polymorphism is provided in table 3 as rs2274122, rs1868132, rs11729561, rs1984162, rs8105499, or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. In another aspect, the invention provides a method of determining the identity of alleles of less than 100,000 polymorphisms in a human subject selected from the group of subjects consisting of humans in need of assessing risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection to generate a polymorphism profile for said subject, said method comprising (i) Selecting at least two of the polymorphisms provided in any one of tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof for analysis of allele identity; (ii) Detecting the polymorphism in a biological sample derived from the human subject; and (iii) Generating the polymorphism profile screened by the subject based on the identity of the alleles analyzed in step (ii), wherein less than 100,000 polymorphisms are selected for allele identity analysis in step (i), and the same less than 100,000 polymorphisms are analyzed in step (ii). In an embodiment of the above aspect, the following are selected for allelic identity: fewer than 100,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 50,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 40,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 30,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 20,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 10,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 7,500 polymorphisms, fewer than 5,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 4,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 3,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 2,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 1,000 polymorphisms, fewer than 900 polymorphisms, fewer than 800 polymorphisms, fewer than 700 polymorphisms, fewer than 600 polymorphisms, fewer than 500 polymorphisms, fewer than 400 polymorphisms, fewer than 300 polymorphisms, fewer than 200 polymorphisms, or fewer than 100 polymorphisms. In embodiments of each of the above aspects, the human subject may be white, african americans, spanish, asian, indian or latin. In a preferred embodiment, the human subject is caucasian. In an embodiment of each of the above aspects, the method further comprises obtaining the biological sample. In one embodiment, the linkage disequilibrium of the polymorphism of linkage disequilibrium is greater than 0.9. In another embodiment, the linkage disequilibrium of the polymorphism of linkage disequilibrium is 1. The inventors have also found that a severe response to a coronavirus infection risk model that relies solely on clinical factors provides a useful risk discrimination for assessing a subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection such as a SARS-CoV-2 infection. Such tests may be particularly useful where a decision needs to be made quickly and/or when genetic tests are not readily available. Thus, in another aspect, the invention provides a method for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about two, three, four, five or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, blood type, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from an autoimmune disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has suffered or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has suffered or has suffered from hypertension, and whether the human has suffered or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). In an embodiment, the method comprises obtaining information about age and gender from the subject. In an embodiment, the method comprises obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). In an embodiment, the method comprises obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, blood type, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). In an embodiment, the method comprises obtaining information from the subject about one or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, blood type, whether the human has or has suffered from autoimmune disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, and whether the human has or has suffered from respiratory disease (in addition to asthma). In another aspect, the invention provides a method for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising i) Performing a genetic risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the genetic risk assessment involves detecting polymorphisms at rs10755709, rs112317747, rs112641600, rs118072448, rs2034831, rs7027911, and rs71481792 in a biological sample derived from the human subject; ii) performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma); and iii) Combining the genetic risk assessment with the clinical risk assessment to determine the risk of a human subject to respond severely to a coronavirus infection. In one embodiment of the present invention, in one embodiment, a) Assigning 0.124239 beta coefficients to each G allele at rs 10755709; b) Assigning 0.2737487 beta coefficients to each C allele at rs 112317747; c) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.2362513 to each T allele at rs 112641600; d) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1995879 to each C allele at rs 118072448; e) Assigning 0.2371955 beta coefficients to each C allele at rs 2034831; f) Assigning 0.1019074 beta coefficients to each a allele at rs 7027911; and is also provided with g) Each T allele at rs71481792 is assigned a β coefficient of-0.1058025. In one embodiment, the subject is between 50 and 84 years old, and a) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.5747727 if the subject is between 70 and 74 years old; b) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.8243711 if the subject is between 75 and 79 years old; c) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.013973 if the subject is between 80 and 84 years old; d) If the subject is male, assigning a β coefficient of 0.2444891; e) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.29311 if the subject is ethnic except caucasian; f) The subject's height (in meters (m)) and weight (in kilograms (kg)) are applied to the following formula: [ (10 x m) 2 )/kg]x-1.602056 to provide a beta coefficient to be assigned; g) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4041337 if the subject was once diagnosed with a cerebrovascular disease; h) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6938494 if the subject was once diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; i) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4297612 if the subject was once diagnosed with diabetes; j) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.003877 if the subject was once diagnosed with a hematological cancer; k) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2922307 if the subject was once diagnosed with hypertension; l) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2558464 if the subject was once diagnosed with non-hematologic cancer; and is also provided with m) if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (other than asthma), assigning a beta coefficient of 1.173753. In one embodiment, the subject is between 18 and 49 years old, and a) -1.3111 if the subject is between 18 and 29 years old; b) -0.8348 if the subject is between 30 and 39 years old; c) -assigning a beta coefficient of-0.4038 if the subject is between 40 and 49 years old; d) If the subject is male, assigning a β coefficient of 0.2444891; e) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.29311 if the subject is ethnic except caucasian; f) The height of the subject (in meters (m))) And body weight (in kilograms (kg)) are applied to the formula: [ (10 x m) 2 )/kg]x-1.602056 to provide a beta coefficient to be assigned; g) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4041337 if the subject was once diagnosed with a cerebrovascular disease; h) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6938494 if the subject was once diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; i) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4297612 if the subject was once diagnosed with diabetes; j) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.003877 if the subject was once diagnosed with a hematological cancer; k) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2922307 if the subject was once diagnosed with hypertension; l) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2558464 if the subject was once diagnosed with non-hematologic cancer; and is also provided with m) if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (other than asthma), assigning a beta coefficient of 1.173753. In one embodiment, the subject is between 18 and 84 years old, and a) -1.3111 if the subject is between 18 and 29 years old; b) -0.8348 if the subject is between 30 and 39 years old; c) -assigning a beta coefficient of-0.4038 if the subject is between 40 and 49 years old; d) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.5747727 if the subject is between 70 and 74 years old; e) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.8243711 if the subject is between 75 and 79 years old; f) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.013973 if the subject is between 80 and 84 years old; g) If the subject is male, assigning a β coefficient of 0.2444891; h) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.29311 if the subject is ethnic except caucasian; i) The subject's height (in meters (m)) and weight (in kilograms (kg)) are applied to the following formula: [ (10 x m) 2 )/kg]x-1.602056 to provide a beta coefficient to be assigned; j) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4041337 if the subject was once diagnosed with a cerebrovascular disease; k) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6938494 if the subject was once diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; l) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4297612 if the subject was once diagnosed with diabetes; m) assigning a beta coefficient of 1.003877 if the subject was once diagnosed with a hematological cancer; n) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2922307 if the subject was once diagnosed with hypertension; o) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2558464 if the subject was once diagnosed with non-hematologic cancer; and is also provided with p) if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (other than asthma), the β -coefficient of 1.173753 is assigned. In an embodiment, in step iii), the genetic risk assessment is combined with the clinical risk assessment using the formula: log probability (LO) = -1.36523+ srf + Σclinical beta coefficient, and wherein SRF is a SNP risk factor determined using the formula: Σ (number of risk alleles x SNP beta coefficient). In another aspect, the invention provides a method for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising i) Performing a genetic risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the genetic risk assessment involves detecting polymorphisms at rs10755709, rs112317747, rs112641600, rs115492982, rs118072448, rs1984162, rs2034831, rs7027911, and rs71481792 in a biological sample derived from the human subject; ii) performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, blood type, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma); and iii) Combining the genetic risk assessment with the clinical risk assessment to determine the risk of a human subject to respond severely to a coronavirus infection. In one embodiment of the present invention, in one embodiment, a) Assigning 0.1231766 beta coefficients to each G allele at rs 10755709; b) Assigning 0.2576692 beta coefficients to each C allele at rs 112317747; c) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.2384001 to each T allele at rs 112641600; d) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1965609 to each C allele at rs 118072448; e) Assigning 0.2414792 beta coefficients to each C allele at rs 2034831; f) Assigning 0.0998459 beta coefficients to each a allele at rs 7027911; and is also provided with g) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1032044 to each T allele at rs 71481792; h) Assigning 0.4163575 beta coefficients to each a allele at rs 115492982; and is also provided with i) Each a allele at rs1984162 is assigned a beta coefficient of 0.1034362. In another embodiment, the subject is between 50 and 84 years old, and a) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.1677566 if the subject is between 65 and 69 years old; b) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6352682 if the subject is between 70 and 74 years old; c) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.8940548 if the subject is between 75 and 79 years old; d) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.082477 if the subject is between 80 and 84 years old; e) If the subject is male, assigning a β coefficient of 0.2418454; f) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2967777 if the subject is ethnic except caucasian; g) The subject's height (in meters (m)) and weight (in kilograms (kg)) are applied to the following formula: [ (10 x m) 2 )/kg]x-1.560943 to provide a beta coefficient to be assigned; h) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.3950113 if the subject was once diagnosed with a cerebrovascular disease; i) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6650257 if the subject was once diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; j) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4126633 if the subject was once diagnosed with diabetes; k) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.001079 if the subject was once diagnosed with a hematological cancer; l) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2640989 if the subject was once diagnosed with hypertension; m) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2381579 if the subject was once diagnosed with non-hematologic cancer; n) assigning a beta coefficient of 1.148496 if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (other than asthma); o) if the subject is ABO blood group, assigning a beta coefficient of-0.229737; p) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6033541 if the subject was once diagnosed with an immune dysfunction disorder; q) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2301902 if the subject was once diagnosed with liver disease. In an embodiment, in step iii), the genetic risk assessment is combined with the clinical risk assessment using the formula: log probability (LO) =1.469939+srf + Σclinicalbeta coefficient, and wherein SRF is a SNP risk factor determined using the formula: Σ (number of risk alleles x SNP beta coefficient). In one embodiment, the method of the invention further comprises determining the probability that the subject needs hospitalization in the presence of an infection with coronavirus using the formula: [e LO /(1+e LO )]x 100， to obtain the percentage of likelihood of requiring hospitalization. In an embodiment of each of the above aspects, the risk assessment produces a score, and the method further comprises comparing the score to a predetermined threshold, wherein if the score is equal to or above the threshold, the subject is assessed as being at risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection. In an embodiment, if the subject is determined to be at risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the subject is more likely to be admitted to intensive care than someone assessed as low risk or compared to the average risk in the population. In a further aspect, the invention provides a method for determining that a human subject is in need of a routine diagnostic test for a coronavirus infection, the method comprising assessing the risk of the subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection using the method of the invention. In another aspect, the invention provides a method of screening a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising assessing the risk of the subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection using the method of the invention, and routinely screening the subject for a coronavirus infection if the subject is assessed as being at risk for a severe response to a coronavirus infection. In embodiments of both aspects, the screening involves analyzing the subject for the virus or symptoms thereof. In a further aspect, the invention provides a method for determining that a human subject is in need of prophylactic anti-coronavirus therapy, the method comprising using the method of the invention to assess the risk of the subject developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection. In yet another aspect, the invention provides a method for preventing or reducing the risk of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising using the method of the invention to assess the subject for a risk of a severe response to a coronavirus infection, and if the subject is assessed as being at risk of a severe response to a coronavirus infection 1) Administration of anti-coronavirus therapy, and/or 2) Isolating the subject. In one aspect, the invention provides an anti-coronavirus infection therapy for preventing a severe response to a coronavirus infection in a human subject at risk, wherein the subject is assessed as being at risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection using the methods of the invention. Many anti-coronavirus therapies, such as anti-SARS-CoV-2 virus therapies, are under development. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any therapy that shows success can be used in the above-described methods. Possible examples include, but are not limited to: cannulation to assist respiration, anti coronavirus vaccines such as anti SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine, convalescence plasma (plasma from a person who has been infected, produced antibodies to the virus and then rehabilitated), chloroquine (chloroquine), hydroxychloroquine (hydroxychloroquine) (with or without zinc), fapirvir (Favipiravir), adefovir (Remdesivir), ivermectin (Ivermectin), quercetin (Quercetin), kaleta (lopinavir)/ritonavir (ritonavir), arbidol (Arbidol), baretinib (baritinib), IL-6 inhibitor CM4620-IE, tolizumab (tocirizumab) and stem cells such as mesenchymal stem cells. In another embodiment, the therapy is vitamin D. Other examples of therapies include Dexamethasone (or other corticosteroids such as prednisone, methylprednisolone or hydrocortisone), combinations of baratinib and ryposivir, anticoagulants ('blood diluents'), bannivemab (bamlanivimab) and ettsevelab Wei Shankang (etesevelab), rehabilitator plasma, tolizumab and corticosteroids, caslizumab (casirinomab) and idesimab (Imdevimab), atorvastatin (atorvstatin), GRP78 and siRNA nanoparticle formulations. Once a vaccine (or indeed many different anti-coronavirus therapies) is developed, there will likely be a supply problem and a decision needs to be made as to why one person will receive the vaccine first compared to another. Thus, the present invention may be used to determine who is at greatest risk and first administer anti-coronavirus therapy (e.g., vaccine) to a person who is assessed as likely to respond severely to coronavirus infection. In one embodiment, the vaccine is an mRNA vaccine. In one embodiment, the vaccine is a protein vaccine. Examples of vaccines that may be administered include, but are not limited to, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, the morgana (Moderna) vaccine, the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, the Oxford-ashaneca (Oxford-Astrazeneca) vaccine, and the Novavax (Novavax) vaccine (see, e.g., katela, 2021). In another embodiment, the invention provides a method for stratifying a group of human subjects for a clinical trial of a candidate therapy, the method comprising using the method of the invention to assess the subject's individual risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, and using the results of the assessment to select subjects more likely to respond to the therapy. Also provided is a kit comprising at least two sets of primers for amplifying two or more nucleic acids, wherein the two or more nucleic acids comprise a polymorphism selected from any one of tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises a primer set for amplifying a nucleic acid comprising each of the polymorphisms provided in table 4 or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In another aspect, the invention provides a genetic array comprising at least two sets of probes for hybridization to two or more nucleic acids, wherein the two or more nucleic acids comprise a polymorphism selected from any one of tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the array comprises probes that hybridize to nucleic acids comprising each of the polymorphisms provided in table 4 or to single nucleotide polymorphisms in which one or more of the polymorphisms are in linkage disequilibrium. In one aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented method for assessing a human subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method being operable in a computing system comprising a processor and a memory, the method comprising: Receiving genetic risk data of the human subject, wherein the genetic risk data is obtained by the method of the invention; processing the data to obtain a risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection; and the risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is exported. In one aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented method for assessing a human subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method being operable in a computing system comprising a processor and a memory, the method comprising: receiving clinical risk data and genetic risk data of the human subject, wherein the clinical risk data or the genetic risk data is obtained by the method of the invention; processing the data to combine the clinical risk data with the genetic risk data to obtain a risk of a human subject to react severely to a coronavirus infection; and the risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is exported. In another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented method for assessing a human subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method being operable in a computing system comprising a processor and a memory, the method comprising: Receiving at least one clinical variable associated with the human subject, wherein at least one clinical variable is obtained by the method of the invention; processing the data to obtain a risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection; and the risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is exported. In embodiments of the three aspects described above, the data is processed using a risk assessment model that has been trained using a training data set that includes data related to severity of coronavirus infection response and genetic and/or clinical data. In another embodiment, the method further comprises displaying or communicating the risk to the user. In one aspect, the invention provides a system for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the system comprising: system instructions for performing a genetic risk assessment of the human subject according to the method of the invention; and system instructions for obtaining a risk of a human subject to develop a severe response to a coronavirus infection. In one aspect, the invention provides a system for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the system comprising: system instructions for clinical risk assessment and genetic risk assessment of the human subject according to the methods of the invention; and system instructions for combining the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment to obtain a risk of a human subject that is severely responsive to a coronavirus infection. In one aspect, the invention provides a system for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the system comprising: system instructions for clinical risk assessment of a human subject using the method of any one of claims 20 to 26 or 36 to 39; and system instructions for obtaining a risk of a human subject to develop a severe response to a coronavirus infection. In an embodiment, the risk data for the subject is received from a user interface coupled to the computing system. In another embodiment, the risk data for the subject is received from a remote device over a wireless communication network. In another embodiment, the user interface or remote device is a SNP array platform. In another embodiment, outputting includes outputting information to a user interface coupled to the computing system. In another embodiment, outputting includes transmitting information to a remote device over a wireless communication network. Any embodiment herein should be deemed suitable for use with any other embodiment, mutatis mutandis, unless explicitly stated otherwise. The scope of the invention is not limited by the specific embodiments described herein, which are intended for illustrative purposes only. Functionally equivalent products, compositions, and methods are clearly within the scope of the invention, as described herein. Throughout this specification, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, reference to a single step, composition of matter, group of steps, or group of compositions of matter should be taken to encompass one or more (i.e., one or more) of those steps, compositions of matter, group of steps, or group of compositions of matter. The invention is described hereinafter by the following non-limiting examples and with reference to the accompanying drawings. Drawings Fig. 1: receiver operating characteristics of models with different amounts of information. The area under the receiver operating curve for the combined model was 0.786, the area under the receiver operating curve for the clinical model was 0.723, the area under the receiver operating curve for the snp score was 0.680, and the area under the receiver operating curve for the age and sex model was 0.635. Fig. 2: (a) Distribution of the covd risk scores for cases and (b) controls. Note that 130 (13%) cases and 6 (1%) controls with scores exceeding 15 have been omitted to facilitate the display of the distribution. Fig. 3: distribution of the covd-19 risk score in the UK biological sample library (UK Biobank). Note that 7,769 (1.8%) scores exceeding 15 have been omitted to facilitate the display of the distribution. Fig. 4:30% of the age and sex models in the validation dataset and the receiver operating characteristics of the 'full model'. The area under the curve (AUC) for the new model was 0.732 (95% ci= 0.708,0.756), and the AUC for the age and gender model was 0.671 (95% ci= 0.646,0.696). Fig. 5: a calibration map of (a) age and gender models and (B) 'full model' in the dataset was validated. Fig. 6: distribution of probability of severe covd-19 in (a) age and gender models and (B) full models in all british biological sample libraries. Detailed Description General techniques and definitions Unless specifically stated otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein should be considered to have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art (e.g., epidemiological analysis, molecular genetics, risk assessment, and clinical research). Unless otherwise indicated, recombinant proteins, cell culture and immunological techniques used in the present invention are standard procedures well known to those skilled in the art. Such techniques are described and explained in the literature of the following sources: such as J.Perbal, molecular cloning Utility Specification (A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning), john Wili's father-son publishing company (John Wiley and Sons) (1984); sambrook et al, molecular cloning: laboratory Manual (Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual), cold spring harbor laboratory Press (Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory Press) (1989); brown (edit), 'basic molecular biology: practical methods (Essential Molecular Biology: A Practical Approach), volumes 1 and 2, IRL Press (1991); glover and B.D.Hames (eds.), 'DNA cloning: practical methods (DNA Cloning: A Practical Approach), volumes 1-4, IRL Press (1995 and 1996); ausubel et al (editions), 'current guidelines for molecular biology experiments (Current Protocols in Molecular Biology),' Greene Pub. Associates) and Wiley International science publication (Wiley-Interscience) (1988, including all updates to date); ed Harlow and David Lane (edit) antibody: laboratory manuals (Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual), cold spring harbor laboratory, (1988); and J.E.Coligan et al (editions), 'contemporary immunology guidelines (Current Protocols in Immunology),' John Wili father-son publishing company (including all updates so far). It is to be understood that the present disclosure is not limited to particular embodiments, which may, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular and the singular forms 'a', 'an', and 'the' include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to 'a probe' optionally includes a plurality of probe molecules; similarly, depending on the context, the use of the term 'nucleic acid' optionally includes, as a practical matter, many copies of the nucleic acid molecule. The term 'and/or', for example, 'X and/or Y' should be understood to mean 'X and Y' or 'X or Y', and should be considered as providing explicit support for both meanings or either meaning. As used herein, unless specified to the contrary, the term 'about' refers to +/-10%, more preferably +/-5%, more preferably +/-1% of the specified value. Throughout this specification, the word 'comprise', or variations such as 'comprises' or 'comprising', will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps. A 'coronavirus' is a group of related RNA viruses that typically cause diseases in mammals and birds, such as respiratory tract infections in humans. Coronaviruses constitute the orthocoronaviridae subfamily (subfamily Orthocoronavirinae) of the coronaviridae family (family Coronaviridae). Coronaviruses are enveloped viruses with a positive-sense single-stranded RNA genome and a helically symmetric nucleocapsid. Coronaviruses have characteristic bar-shaped spikes protruding from their surface. Examples of coronaviruses causing human disease include, but are not limited to, severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2), middle east respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (MERS), human coronavirus OC43, human coronavirus HKU1, human coronavirus 229E, and human coronavirus NL63. In some embodiments, the SARS-CoV-2 strain is selected from, but not limited to, an L strain, an S strain, a V strain, a G strain, a GR strain, a GH strain, an hCoV-19/Australian/VIC 01/2020, a βCoV/Wuhan/WIV 04/2019, a B.1.1.7 variant, a B.1.351 variant, a B.1.427 variant, a B.1.429 variant, and a P.1 variant. As used herein, 'risk assessment' refers to a process by which a subject may be assessed for risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection. Risk assessment will typically involve obtaining information about the risk of a subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, assessing the information, and quantifying the risk of the subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, e.g., by generating a risk score. As used herein, the term 'severe response to a coronavirus infection' encompasses any factor or symptom thereof that a doctor believes will warrant hospitalization of a subject, that the life of the subject is at risk, or that the subject requires assisted respiration. Examples of symptoms of a severe response to a coronavirus infection include, but are not limited to, dyspnea or shortness of breath, chest pain or chest distress, loss of speech, or loss of movement. A phenotype that shows a propensity for severe response to a coronavirus infection under a given set of environmental conditions (diet, physical activity regimen, geographical location, etc.) may, for example, show a higher likelihood that severe response to a coronavirus infection will develop in individuals with that phenotype than in members of the relevant general population. As used herein, 'biological sample' refers to any sample from or derived from a human patient that includes nucleic acids (especially DNA), such as body fluids (blood, saliva, urine, etc.), biopsies, tissues, and/or waste from the patient. Thus, polymorphisms of tissue biopsies, faeces, sputum, saliva, blood, lymph etc. can be readily screened just as with any tissue of interest containing essentially the appropriate nucleic acid. In one embodiment, the biological sample is a buccal epithelial cell sample. After informed consent, these samples are typically taken from the patient by standard medical laboratory methods. The sample may be in a form that is taken directly from the patient, or may be at least partially processed (purified) to remove at least some non-nucleic acid species. As used herein, 'gender' and 'sex' are used interchangeably and refer to the biological reproductive anatomy of an individual. In one embodiment, the sex/gender of the individual is self-identifying. As used herein, 'human subject,' 'human' and 'subject' are used interchangeably and refer to an individual who is assessed for risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection. 'polymorphism' is a variable locus; that is, within a population, the nucleotide sequence at a polymorphism has more than one pattern or allele. An example of a polymorphism is a 'single nucleotide polymorphism' (SNP), which is a polymorphism at a single nucleotide position in the genome (the nucleotide at a particular position varies between individuals or populations). Other examples include the deletion or insertion of one or more base pairs at polymorphic loci. As used herein, the term 'SNP' or 'single nucleotide polymorphism' refers to genetic variation between individuals; for example, a single nitrogen-containing base position that is variable in the DNA of an organism. As used herein, 'SNPs' are plural forms of SNPs. Of course, when referring to DNA herein, such references may include derivatives of DNA, such as amplicons, RNA transcripts thereof, and the like. The term 'allele' refers to one of the following: two or more different nucleotide sequences present at or encoding a particular locus or two or more different polypeptide sequences encoded by such loci. For example, a first allele may be present on one chromosome, while a second allele is present on a second homologous chromosome, e.g., as present on a different chromosome of a heterozygous individual, or between different homozygous or heterozygous individuals in a population. Alleles are 'positively' correlated with a trait when the allele is linked to the trait and when the presence of the allele is an indication that the trait or trait form will be present in an individual comprising the allele. Alleles are 'negatively' correlated with a trait when the allele is linked to the trait and when the presence of the allele is an indication that the trait or trait form will not be present in an individual comprising the allele. A marker polymorphism or allele is 'associated' or 'associated' with a particular phenotype (severe response to susceptibility to coronavirus infection, etc.) when the marker polymorphism or allele can be statistically linked (positive or negative) to that phenotype. Methods for determining whether polymorphisms or alleles are statistically linked are known to those of skill in the art. That is, a particular polymorphism occurs more frequently in a population of cases (e.g., with severe response to a patient suffering from a coronavirus infection) than in a control population (e.g., an individual that does not have severe response to a coronavirus infection). Such a correlation is typically inferred to be causal in nature, but it is not necessary that the correlation be a simple genetic linkage (correlation) to the locus of the trait underlying the phenotype sufficient for the correlation to occur. The phrase 'linkage disequilibrium' (LD) is used to describe the statistical correlation between two adjacent polymorphic genotypes. In general, LD refers to the correlation between alleles of random gametes at two loci, assuming the Hardy-Winberg equilibrium (Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium) between gametes (statistical independence). LD was quantified using either the Lewontin correlation parameter (D') or the Pearson correlation coefficient (r) (Devlin and Risch, 1995). Two loci with LD value 1 are referred to as complete LD. At the other extreme, two loci with LD value 0 are called linkage equilibrium. Linkage disequilibrium is calculated after applying the expectation maximization algorithm (EM) for estimating haplotype frequencies (Slatkin and exoffer, 1996). LD (r) of adjacent genotypes/loci according to the disclosure 2 ) The value is selected to be higher than 0.1, preferably higher than 0.2, more preferably higher than 0.5, more preferably higher than 0.6, still more preferably higher than 0.7, preferably higher than 0.8, more preferably higher than 0.9, desirably about 1.0. Another way in which one of skill in the art can readily identify polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with the polymorphisms of the present disclosure is to determine the LOD scores for two loci. LOD stands for 'log odds', i.e. a statistical estimate of whether two genes or one gene and a disease gene might be located close to each other on the chromosome and thus might be inherited. LOD scores of between about 2 and 3 or higher are generally understood to mean that two genes are located close to each other on the chromosome. Tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 show various examples of polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with the polymorphisms of the present disclosure. The inventors have found that the LOD score for many of the polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with the polymorphisms of the present disclosure is between about 2 and 50. Thus, in an embodiment, the LOD values of adjacent genotypes/loci according to the present disclosure are selected to be at least greater than 2, at least greater than 3, at least greater than 4, at least greater than 5, at least greater than 6, at least greater than 7, at least greater than 8, at least greater than 9, at least greater than 10, at least greater than 20, at least greater than 30, at least greater than 40, at least greater than 50. In another embodiment, the specific genetic recombination distance for a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with a polymorphism of the present disclosure may be less than or equal to about 20 centimorgan (cM) or less. For example, 15cM or less, 10cM or less, 9cM or less, 8cM or less, 7cM or less, 6cM or less, 5cM or less, 4cM or less, 3cM or less, 2cM or less, 1cM or less, 0.75cM or less, 0.5cM or less, 0.25cM or less, or 0.1cM or less. For example, during meiosis, two linked loci within a single chromosome segment can recombine with each other at a frequency of less than or equal to about 20%, about 19%, about 18%, about 17%, about 16%, about 15%, about 14%, about 13%, about 12%, about 11%, about 10%, about 9%, about 8%, about 7%, about 6%, about 5%, about 4%, about 3%, about 2%, about 1%, about 0.75%, about 0.5%, about 0.25%, or about 0.1% or less. In another embodiment, the polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with the polymorphisms of the present disclosure are within at least 100kb (which correlates with about 0.1cM in humans, depending on the local recombination rate), at least 50kb, at least 20kb or less of each other. For example, one method for identifying surrogate markers for a particular polymorphism involves a simple strategy that assumes that the polymorphism surrounding the polymorphism of interest is in linkage disequilibrium and may thus provide information about disease susceptibility. Thus, as described herein, surrogate markers may thus be identified from publicly available databases (such as hapap) by searching for polymorphisms that meet certain criteria that have been found in the scientific community to be suitable for selection of surrogate marker candidates (see, e.g., table 6a providing a surrogate for the polymorphisms in table 3 and table 6b providing a surrogate for the polymorphisms in table 4). 'allele frequency' refers to the frequency (ratio or percentage) at which an allele is present at a locus within an individual, within a line, or within a group of lines. For example, for allele 'a', the allele frequency of diploid individuals of genotype 'AA', 'AA' or 'AA' is 1.0, 0.5 or 0.0, respectively. Allele frequencies within a line or population (e.g., a case or control) can be estimated by averaging allele frequencies of samples from individuals of the line or population. Similarly, allele frequencies within a population of lines may be calculated by averaging the allele frequencies of the lines comprising the population. In one embodiment, the term 'allele frequency' is used to define the Minor Allele Frequency (MAF). MAF refers to the frequency of occurrence of the smallest common allele in a given population. An individual is 'homozygous' if the individual has only one type of allele at a given locus (e.g., a diploid individual has copies of the same allele at the locus for each of the two homologous chromosomes). An individual is 'heterozygous' if there is more than one allele type at a given locus (e.g., a diploid individual having one copy of each of two different alleles). The term 'homogeneity' indicates that members of a group have the same genotype at one or more specific loci. Conversely, the term 'heterogeneity' is used to indicate that individuals within the group differ in genotype at one or more particular loci. A 'locus' is a chromosomal location or region. For example, a polymorphic locus is a location or region in which a polymorphic nucleic acid, trait determinant, gene or marker is located. In another example, a 'locus' is a particular chromosomal location (region) in the genome of a species in which a particular gene can be found. 'marker,' 'molecular marker,' or 'marker nucleic acid' refers to a nucleotide sequence or encoded product thereof (e.g., a protein) that serves as a reference point in identifying a locus or linked locus. The marker may be derived from a genomic nucleotide sequence or from an expressed nucleotide sequence (e.g., from RNA, nRNA, mRNA, cDNA, etc.), or from the encoded polypeptide. The term also refers to a nucleic acid sequence that is complementary to or flanking a marker sequence, such as a nucleic acid that serves as a probe or primer pair capable of amplifying the marker sequence. A 'marker probe' is a nucleic acid sequence or molecule that can be used to identify the presence of a marker locus, e.g., a nucleic acid probe that is complementary to a marker locus sequence. For example, nucleic acids are 'complementary' when they hybridize specifically in solution according to Watson-Crick base pairing rules (Watson-Crick base pairing rule). A 'marker locus' is a locus that can be used to track the presence of a second linked locus, e.g., a linked locus or related locus that encodes or contributes to a population change in a phenotypic trait. For example, a marker locus may be used to monitor the segregation of alleles at a locus, such as a Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL), that are genetically or physically linked to the marker locus. Thus, a 'marker allele', alternatively, an 'allele of a marker locus' is one of a plurality of polymorphic nucleotide sequences found at the marker locus in a population that are polymorphic to the marker locus. Each of the identified markers is expected to be physically and genetically close (thereby causing physical and/or genetic linkage) to a genetic element (e.g., QTL) that contributes to the relevant phenotype. Markers corresponding to genetic polymorphisms between population members can be detected by art-recognized methods. These methods include, for example, DNA sequencing, PCR-based sequence-specific amplification methods, detection of Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphisms (RFLP), detection of isozymic markers, detection of allele-specific hybridization (ASH), detection of single nucleotide extension, detection of amplified variable sequences of the genome, detection of self-sustained sequence replication, detection of Simple Sequence Repeats (SSR), detection of Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs), or detection of Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLP). In the context of nucleic acid amplification, the term 'amplification' is any process that produces additional copies of a selected nucleic acid (or transcribed form thereof). Typical amplification methods include various polymerase-based replication methods, including Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), ligase-mediated methods such as Ligase Chain Reaction (LCR), and RNA polymerase-based amplification (e.g., by transcription) methods. An 'amplicon' is an amplified nucleic acid, e.g., a nucleic acid that results from amplifying a template nucleic acid by any available amplification method (e.g., PCR, LCR, transcription, etc.). A 'gene' is one or more nucleotide sequences in the genome that together encode one or more expressed molecules (e.g., RNA or polypeptide). The gene may comprise a coding sequence transcribed into RNA which may then be translated into a polypeptide sequence, and may comprise related structural or regulatory sequences that facilitate replication or expression of the gene. A 'genotype' is the genetic composition of an individual (or a group of individuals) at one or more genetic loci. Genotype is defined by the alleles of one or more known loci of an individual, typically from the compilation of alleles inherited from parents. A 'haplotype' is the genotype of an individual at multiple genetic loci on a single DNA strand. Typically, the genetic loci described by haplotypes are physically and genetically linked, i.e., on the same chromosomal strand. A 'panel' of markers (polymorphisms), probes or primers is a collection or panel of marker probes, primers or data derived therefrom, for a common purpose, e.g., identifying individuals having a particular genotype (e.g., at risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection). Typically, the data corresponding to or derived from the use of the marker, probe or primer is stored in an electronic medium. While each member of a group has utility for a particular purpose, individual markers selected from the group, as well as subsets containing some but not all markers, are also effective in achieving a particular purpose. The polymorphisms and genes described above and the corresponding marker probes, amplicons or primers may be embodied in any system herein in the form of physical nucleic acids or in the form of system instructions comprising sequence information of the nucleic acids. For example, the system may comprise primers or amplicons corresponding to (or amplifying a portion of) the genes or polymorphisms described herein. As in the methods described above, a marker probe or primer set optionally detects multiple polymorphisms in multiple such genes or genetic loci. Thus, for example, a marker probe or primer set detects at least one polymorphism in each of these polymorphisms or genes, or any other polymorphism, gene or locus defined herein. Any such probes or primers may comprise the nucleotide sequence of any such polymorphism or gene, or a complementary nucleic acid thereof, or a transcript thereof (e.g., nRNA or mRNA form produced from a genomic sequence, e.g., by transcription or splicing). As used herein, a 'receiver operating characteristic curve' (ROC) refers to a plot of sensitivity versus (1-specificity) of a binary classifier system as the discrimination threshold of the binary classifier system is varied. ROC can also be equivalently represented by plotting the fraction of true positives (tpr=true positives rate) versus the fraction of false positives (fpr=false positives rate). Also referred to as a relative operating characteristic curve, because the curve is a comparison of two operating characteristics (TPR and FPR) as a function of the standard. ROC analysis provides a tool to select the best possible model and discard sub-optimal models independent of (and prior to specifying) cost context or category distribution. Methods used in the context of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art. As used herein, the phrase 'combining a first clinical risk assessment and a genetic risk assessment' refers to any suitable mathematical analysis that depends on the outcome of the assessment. For example, the results of the first clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment may be added, more preferably multiplied. As used herein, the terms 'conventional screening for severe response to coronavirus infection' and 'more frequent screening' are relative terms and are based on comparison to a screening level recommended for a subject not identified at risk of developing severe response to coronavirus infection. Genetic risk assessment In one aspect, a method for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection of the invention involves detecting the presence of a polymorphism provided in any one of tables 1 to 3, 5a or 6, or tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22, or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. In another aspect, the methods of the invention relate to genetic risk assessment by analyzing the genotype of a subject at two or more loci for polymorphisms associated with severe response to coronavirus infection. Various exemplary polymorphisms associated with severe response to coronavirus infection are discussed in this disclosure. These polymorphisms vary in terms of the rate of appearance, and those skilled in the art will appreciate that many polymorphisms are low-rate polymorphisms. In the context of the present disclosure, the term 'rate of exonic' is used to refer to the frequency with which a particular polymorphism exhibits itself in a human subject having a severe response to a coronavirus infection. 'high-exon' polymorphisms will almost always be apparent in human subjects with severe response to coronavirus infection, whereas 'low-exon' polymorphisms will only be apparent from time to time. In one embodiment, the polymorphism assessed as part of a genetic risk assessment according to the present disclosure is a low-exon rate polymorphism. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, the odds ratio associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection is greater than 1.0 for each polymorphism that increases the risk of producing a severe response to a coronavirus infection. In one embodiment, the odds ratio is greater than 1.02. The odds ratio associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection for each polymorphism that reduces the risk of producing a severe response to a coronavirus infection is less than 1.0. In one embodiment, the odds ratio is less than 0.98. Examples of such polymorphisms include, but are not limited to, the polymorphisms provided in tables 1 to 3, 5a or 6, or tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22, or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, genetic risk assessment involves assessing polymorphisms associated with increased risk of developing a severe response to coronavirus infection. In another embodiment, the genetic risk assessment involves assessing polymorphisms associated with reduced risk of developing a severe response to coronavirus infection. In another embodiment, the genetic risk assessment involves assessing polymorphisms associated with an increased risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection and polymorphisms associated with a decreased risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection. TABLE 1 information polymorphism of the invention. TABLE 2 information polymorphism of the invention-306 polymorphism panel. TABLE 3 information polymorphism-58 polymorphism panel of the present invention. Table 4-informative polymorphism-64 polymorphism panel used in the genetic risk assessment of example 5. All SNPs were meta-analyzed from the inpatient versus non-inpatient COVID-19 host genetics program, except for rs11385942 and rs657152 from Ellinghaus et al (2020). Table 5-new information polymorphisms used in the development of the model described in example 6. The surrogate markers for the polymorphisms provided in tables 6-3 (part a) and the surrogate markers for the additional polymorphisms used in table 4 (part B). Part C provides a surrogate marker for rs 115492982. In one embodiment, at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 polymorphisms associated with severe responses to coronavirus infection are analyzed. In one embodiment, the at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 polymorphisms associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection are selected from the polymorphisms provided in tables 1 to 3, 5a, or 6, tables 1 to 6, 8, 19, or 22, or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 polymorphisms associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection are selected from the polymorphisms provided in table 1 and table 6a or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 polymorphisms associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection are selected from the polymorphisms provided in table 1 or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 polymorphisms associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection are selected from the polymorphisms provided in table 2 and table 6a or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, or at least 50 polymorphisms associated with severe response to coronavirus infection are selected from the polymorphisms provided in table 2 and table 6a or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, or at least 50 polymorphisms associated with severe response to coronavirus infection are selected from the polymorphisms provided in table 2 or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, or at least 50 polymorphisms associated with severe response to coronavirus infection are selected from the polymorphisms provided in table 3 or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, or at least 60 polymorphisms associated with severe response to coronavirus infection are selected from the polymorphisms provided in table 4 or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In an embodiment, the methods of the invention involve detecting the presence of each of the polymorphisms provided in table 2 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In an embodiment, the methods of the invention involve detecting the presence of each of the polymorphisms provided in table 3 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In an embodiment, the methods of the invention involve detecting the presence of each of the polymorphisms provided in table 4 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In an embodiment, the methods of the invention involve detecting the presence of each of the polymorphisms provided in table 19 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In an embodiment, the methods of the invention involve detecting the presence of each of the polymorphisms provided in table 22 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. Those skilled in the art will readily identify polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with the polymorphisms specifically mentioned herein. Table 6a provides examples of linked loci for the polymorphisms listed in table 3. Table 6b provides examples of linked loci for the polymorphisms listed in table 4, which are not provided in table 6 a. Such linkage polymorphisms to the other polymorphisms listed in table 1 can be identified very easily by a person skilled in the art using the hapap database. When correlated in each table, A1 or allele 1 is a risk (minor allele) correlated allele. As described herein, a risk allele may be associated with a decrease or increase in risk. As used herein, the terms 'A1' and 'allele 1' are used interchangeably. As used herein, the terms 'A2' and 'allele 2' are used interchangeably. In an embodiment, if the method comprises analysis of rs11385942 and/or rs657152, the method further comprises detecting at least one other polymorphism provided in any one of tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. Calculating a composite relative risk 'genetic risk' An individual's 'genetic risk' may be defined as the product of the genotype versus risk values for each polymorphism evaluated. Then, under rare disease models, a logarithmic additive risk model may be used to define the relative risk value, OR, and OR for a model with a relative risk of 1 2 The polymorphisms of (a) are AA, AB and BB, where OR is the ratio of the disease probability of the high risk allele B to the low risk allele a reported previously. If the B allele has a frequency (p), then the population frequency of these genotypes is (1-p) 2 2p (1-p) and p 2 Suppose a Hardy-Wenberg equilibrium (Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium). The genotype relative risk value for each polymorphism may then be scaled so that the average relative risk in the population is 1 based on these frequencies. In particular, consider the unscaled population of each SNPVolume average relative risk: (μ)＝(1-p) 2 +2p(1-p)OR+p 2 OR 2 for each SNP AA, AB and BB genotype, use the adjusted risk values 1/μ, OR/μ and OR 2 Mu. The relative risk of assigning the deleted genotype is 1. Genetic risk may be defined using the following formula: SNP 1 x SNP 2 x SNP 3 x SNP 4 x SNP 5 x SNP 6 x SNP 7 x SNP 8 etc. Similar calculations can be made for non-SNP polymorphisms or combinations thereof. An alternative method for calculating composite risk is described in Mavaddat et al (2015). In this example, the following formula is used: PRS＝β 1 x 1 +β 2 x 2 +....β κ x κ +β n x n wherein beta is κ Is the ratio of logarithmic probability per allele (OR) of minor allele of SNP kappa, and x κ Is the number of alleles of the same SNP (0, 1 or 2), n is the total number of SNPs and PRS is a multiple genetic risk score (which may also be referred to as complex SNP risk). Similar calculations can be made for non-SNP polymorphisms or combinations thereof. In alternative embodiments, the magnitude of the effect of each risk allele is not used when calculating the genetic risk score. More specifically, allele counts as generally described in WO 2005/086770 are used. For example, in one embodiment, a subject has a score of 2 if the subject is homozygous for the at-risk allele, a score of 1 if the subject is heterozygous for the at-risk allele, and a score of 0 if the subject is homozygous for the at-risk allele. Alternative values, such as 1, 0.5 and 0, respectively, may be used as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. In one embodiment, the percentage of risk alleles present in the total possible number of loci analyzed is used to generate a genetic risk score. For example, in the 64 allele panel described in example 5, a subject may have up to 128 at-risk alleles. If a subject has 64 of these 128 alleles, the subject will have 50% of the total possible alleles that can be represented as 0.5. The genetic risk score can be expressed as: ln_risk= -8.4953 (i.e. model intercept) +0.1496 ×snp%. Risk=exp (ln_risk). In this example, the risk is the relative risk of severe disease (e.g., risk = 3.5 person is at 3.5 fold increased risk compared to the person with average number of risk alleles). exp (β) is the odds ratio of 1% increase in the risk allele. Therefore, exp (0.1496) =1.16, which means that in case of 1% increase in SNP%, the risk increases by 16%. In one embodiment, the beta coefficient (model intercept) is between-10.06391 and-6.926615, or between-9.5 and-7.5, or between-9 and-8. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the starting ln (risk) for the percentage of risk alleles is 0.1237336 to 0.1755347, or 0.16 to 0.14. In one embodiment, the genetic risk is a SNP risk factor (SNF). In one embodiment, snf= Σ (number of risk alleles x SNP beta coefficient). The 'risk' of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection may be provided in the form of a relative risk (or risk ratio). In one embodiment, the genetic risk assessment obtains a 'relative risk' of a human subject in response to a severe coronavirus infection. Relative risk (or risk ratio), measured as the incidence of disease in individuals with a particular trait (or exposure) divided by the incidence of disease in individuals without that trait, indicates whether the particular exposure is increasing or decreasing risk. The relative risk helps to identify disease-related characteristics, but is not itself particularly helpful in guiding screening decisions, as the frequency of risks (morbidity) is offset. In one embodiment, a threshold is set for determining a particular action, such as a need for routine diagnostic testing, a need for prophylactic anti-coronavirus therapy, selection of vaccinated persons, or a need for administration of anti-coronavirus therapy. For example, a score determined using the method of the present invention is compared to a predetermined threshold and if the score is above the threshold, a recommendation is made to take the predetermined action. Methods of setting such thresholds have now been widely used in the art and are described, for example, in US 20140018258. Clinical risk assessment In one embodiment, the method further comprises performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject; and combining the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment to obtain a risk of the human subject for a severe response to the coronavirus infection. The clinical risk assessment procedure may comprise obtaining clinical information from a human subject. In other embodiments, these details have been determined (e.g., in a medical record of the subject). Examples of factors that may be used to generate a clinical risk assessment include, but are not limited to, obtaining information from a human about one or more of the following: age, family history of severe response to coronavirus infection, race/ethnicity, sex, body mass index, total cholesterol level, systolic and/or diastolic blood pressure, smoking status, whether the human is suffering from diabetes, whether the human is suffering from cardiovascular disease, whether the subject is taking hypertensive drugs, loss of taste, loss of sense of smell, and white blood cell count. In an embodiment, the clinical risk assessment is based solely on one or more or all of the following: age, body mass index, loss of taste, loss of smell, and smoking status. In another embodiment, the clinical risk assessment is based solely on one or more or all of the following: age, loss of taste, loss of smell, and smoking status. In an embodiment, the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about one or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, blood type, whether the human has or has suffered from autoimmune disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, and whether the human has or has suffered from respiratory disease (in addition to asthma). In one embodiment, the clinical risk assessment includes at least age and gender. The inventors have also found that a severe response to a coronavirus infection risk model that relies solely on clinical factors provides a useful risk discrimination for assessing a subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection such as a SARS-CoV-2 infection. Such tests may be particularly useful where a decision needs to be made quickly and/or when genetic tests are not readily available. Thus, in another aspect, the invention provides a method for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about two, three, four, five or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, blood type, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from an autoimmune disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has suffered or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has suffered or has suffered from hypertension, and whether the human has suffered or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). In an embodiment, the method comprises obtaining information about age and gender from the subject. In an embodiment, the method comprises obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). In an embodiment, the method comprises obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, blood type, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). Examples of respiratory diseases included in the test are chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Diabetes may be any type of diabetes. In one embodiment, clinical risk assessment is performed using the following formula: ln (risk) =model intercept +OR if clinical factor one is applied +OR if clinical factor II is applied +OR if clinical factor three is used +OR if clinical factor n is applied. Where OR = odds ratio. In one embodiment, clinical risk assessment is performed using the following formula: ln (risk) =model intercept +or if age group = 18 to 29 years oldOr alternatively +or if age group = 30 to 39 years oldOr alternatively +or if age group = 40 to 49 years oldOr alternatively +or if age group = 60 to 69 years oldOr alternatively +or if age group = 70+year old +or if sex = male +or if race = non-caucasian +or if ABO blood group = aOr alternatively +or if ABO blood group = BOr alternatively +or if ABO blood group = AB +or if/when suffering from autoimmune disease (i.e. rheumatoid arthritis, lupus OR psoriasis) =is +or if/once suffering from hematologic cancer = is +or if/had non-hematologic cancer = is +or if/had diabetes = is +or if/had hypertension = is +or if/had respiratory disease (except asthma) =is Where OR = odds ratio. Using the above formula, the relative risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is: risk=e ln (risk) 。 In one example, clinical risk assessment is performed using the following formula: ln (risk) = -0.2645 + -1.3111 if age group = 18 to 29 years old + -0.8348 if age group = 30 to 39 years old + -0.4038 if age group = 40 to 49 years old + -0.0973 if age group = 60 to 69 years old +0.4419 if age group = 70+year old +0.0855 if sex = male +0.0404 if race = non-caucasian + -0.0614 if ABO blood group = a +0.2039 if ABO blood group=b + -0.5541 if ABO blood group = AB +0.5424 if/were to have autoimmune disease (i.e. rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or psoriasis) =is +1.0104 if/had hematological cancer = yes +0.2436 if/had non-hematologic cancer = is +0.3863 if/when diabetes mellitus = is +0.3064 if/when hypertension = is present +1.2642 if/had respiratory disease (except asthma) =is In one embodiment of the above formula, the onset ln (model intercept) is-0.5284 to 1.5509, or-0.16 to-0.36. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) for ages 18 to 29 is-1.5 to-1, or-1.4 to-1.2. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) for ages 30 to 39 is-1 to-0.7, or-0.9 to-0.8. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) for ages 40 to 49 is-0.6 to-0.2, or-0.45 to-0.35. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) for ages 60 to 69 is-0.4021263 to 0.2075385, or-0.19 to 0.09. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) of age 70+ is 0.1504677 to 0.73339, or 0.34 to 0.54. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the starting ln (risk) for men is-0.140599 to 0.3115929, or-0.3 to 0.19. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the starting ln (risk) for non-caucasians is-0.3029713 to 0.3837958, or-0.06 to 0.14. In one embodiment of the above formula, the initial ln (risk) for blood group a is adjusted to-0.3018427 to 0.1791056, or-0.16 to 0.04. In one embodiment of the above formula, the initial ln (risk) for blood group B is adjusted to-0.1817567 to 0.5895909, or 0.1 to 0.3. In one embodiment of the above formula, the initial ln (risk) adjustment for the AB blood group is-1.172319 to 0.0641862, or-0.45 to-0.65. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the onset ln (risk) for humans suffering from or having suffered from rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or psoriasis is from-0.0309265 to 1.115784, or from 0.44 to 0.64. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the initial ln (risk) for humans suffering from or having had a hematological cancer is 0.1211918 to 1.899663, or 0.9 to 1.1. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the onset ln (risk) for humans with or who have had non-hematologic cancers is-0.0625866 to 0.5498824, or 0.14 to 0.34. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the onset ln (risk) for humans with or having diabetes is 0.0624018 to 0.7101834, or 0.28 to 0.48. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the initial ln (risk) for humans suffering from or having suffered from hypertension is 0.0504567 to 0.5623362, or 0.1 to 0.3. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the onset ln (risk) for humans suffering from or having suffered from respiratory disease (not including asthma) is 0.9775684 to 1.550944, or 1.16 to 1.36. The present invention provides a method for assessing the risk of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the clinical risk assessment involves determining at least the age and sex of the subject and generating a score. In one embodiment, the method further comprises comparing the score to a predetermined threshold, wherein if the score is equal to or above the threshold, the subject is assessed as being at risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection. In one embodiment, the subject is between 50 and 84 years old and is queried for age and gender. In an embodiment, the method includes determining a log probability (LO). For example, LO may be calculated using the following equation: LO = X + Σclinical beta coefficient In one embodiment, X is-2.25 to-1.25, or-2 or-1.5. In one embodiment, X is-1.749562. In one embodiment, a relative risk is determined. In one embodiment, the relative risk is determined using the following formula: relative risk=e LO In one embodiment, a probability is determined. In one embodiment, the probability is determined using the following equation: Probability=e LO /(1+e LO ) 'e' is a mathematical constant that is the base of the natural logarithm. In one embodiment, the probability obtained by the above equation is multiplied by 100 to obtain the percent likelihood of severe response to coronavirus infection (e.g., requiring hospitalization). In one embodiment, if the subject is between 50 and 64 years old, the subject is assigned a beta factor of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0. In an embodiment, if the subject is between 65 and 69 years old, the subject is assigned a beta factor of 0 to 1, or 0.25 to 0.75 or 0.4694892. In one embodiment, if the subject is between 70 and 74 years old, the subject is assigned a beta coefficient of 0.5 to 1.5, or 0.75 to 1.25 or 1.006561. In one embodiment, if the subject is between 75 and 79 years old, the subject is assigned a beta coefficient of 0.9 to 1.9, or 1.15 to 1.65, or 1.435318. In an embodiment, if the subject is between 80 and 84 years old, the subject is assigned a beta coefficient of 1.1 to 2.1, or 1.35 to 1.85 or 1.599188. In one embodiment, if the subject is female, the subject is assigned a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0. In one embodiment, if the subject is male, the subject is assigned a beta coefficient of-0.1 to 0.9, or 0.15 to 0.65, or 0.3911169. In one embodiment, the last value provided above in each standard is used. In an embodiment, the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about one or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). In one embodiment, each of the above factors is evaluated, and LO = X + Σclinicalbeta factor, where X is-1.8 to-0.8, or-1.6, or-1.15, or-1.36523; -assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to a subject if the subject is between 50 and 69 years old; Assigning a beta coefficient of from.1 to 1.1, or from 0.35 to 0.85, or 0.5747727 to a subject if the subject is between 70 and 74 years old; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.3 to 1.3, or-0.55 to 1.05, or 0.8243711 to a subject if the subject is between 75 and 79 years old; -assigning a beta coefficient of-2.3 to-0.3, or-0.18 to-0.8, or-1.3111 to a subject if the subject is between 18 and 29 years old; -assigning a beta coefficient of-1.8 to 0.2, or-1.23 to-0.3, or-0.8348 to a subject if the subject is between the ages of 30 and 39; -assigning a beta coefficient of-1.4 to 0.6, or-0.9 to-0.1, or-0.4038 to a subject if the subject is between 40 and 49 years old; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.5 to 1.5, or 0.25 to 1.25, or 1.013973 to a subject if the subject is between 80 and 84 years old; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject is female; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.25 to 0.75, or 0 to 0.5, or 0.2444891 to the subject if the subject is male; Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject is caucasian; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.2 to 0.8, or 0.05 to 1.55, or 0.29311 to the subject if the subject is ethnic except caucasian; the height (in meters (m)) and weight (in kilograms (kg)) of the subject are applied to the following formula: [ (10 x m) 2 )/kg]x-1.1 to 2.1, or-1.35 to-1.85, or-1.602056 to provide a beta coefficient to be assigned; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1 to 0.9, or 0.15 to 0.65, or 0.4041337 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed as suffering from a cerebrovascular disease; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as suffering from a cerebrovascular disease; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2 to 1.2, or 0.55 to 0.95, or 0.6938494 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1 to 0.9, or 0.15 to 0.65, or 0.4297612 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with diabetes; Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having diabetes; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.5 to 1.5, or 0.75 to 1.25, or 1.003877 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with a hematological cancer; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having hematological cancer; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.2 to 0.8, or 0.05 to 1.55 or 0.2922307 to the subject if the subject was once diagnosed with hypertension; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having hypertension; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.25 to 1, or 0 to 0.5, or 0.2558464 to the subject if the subject was once diagnosed with a non-hematologic cancer; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having a non-hematologic cancer; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.7 to 1.7, or 0.95 to 1.45, or 1.173753 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (except asthma); and is also provided with Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (except asthma); in one embodiment, the last value provided above in each standard is used. In an embodiment, the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about one or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, blood type, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). In one embodiment, each of the above factors is evaluated, and LO = X + Σclinicalbeta factor, where X is-2 to-1.5, or-1.75, or-1.25, or-1.469939; -assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to a subject if the subject is between 50 and 64 years old; -assigning a beta coefficient of-0.3 to 0.7, or-0.05 to 0.45, or 0.1677566 to a subject if the subject is between 65 and 69 years old; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.1 to 1.1, or 0.35 to 1.85, or 0.6352682 to a subject if the subject is between 70 and 74 years old; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4 to 1.4, or 0.65 to 1.15, or 0.8940548 to a subject if the subject is between 75 and 79 years old; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.5 to 1.5, or 0.25 to 1.25, or 1.082477 to a subject if the subject is between 80 and 84 years old; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject is female; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.25 to 0.75, or 0 to 0.5, or 0.2418454 to the subject if the subject is male; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject is caucasian; Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.2 to 0.8, or 0.05 to 1.55, or 0.2967777 to the subject if the subject is ethnic except caucasian; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has a blood group other than ABO; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.25 to 0.75, or 0 to 0.5, or-0.229737 to the subject if the subject is ABO blood group; the height (in meters (m)) and weight (in kilograms (kg)) of the subject are applied to the following formula: [ (10 x m) 2 )/kg]x-1.1 to 2.1, or-1.35 to-1.85, or-1.560943 to provide a beta coefficient to be assigned; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1 to 0.9, or 0.15 to 0.65, or 0.3950113 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed as suffering from a cerebrovascular disease; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as suffering from a cerebrovascular disease; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2 to 1.2, or 0.55 to 0.95, or 0.6650257 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1 to 0.9, or 0.15 to 0.65, or 0.4126633 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with diabetes; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having diabetes; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.5 to 1.5, or 0.75 to 1.25, or 1.001079 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with a hematological cancer; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having hematological cancer; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.2 to 0.8, or 0.05 to 1.55, or 0.2640989 to the subject if the subject was once diagnosed with hypertension; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having hypertension; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.1 to 1.1, or 0.35 to 0.85, or 0.6033541 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with an immune dysfunction disease; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having an immune function compromised disease; Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.2 to 0.8, or 0.05 to 1.55, or 0.2301902 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with a liver disease; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having liver disease; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.25 to 1, or 0 to 0.5, or 0.2381579 to the subject if the subject was once diagnosed with a non-hematologic cancer; assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject has never been diagnosed as having a non-hematologic cancer; assigning a beta coefficient of 0.7 to 1.7, or 0.95 to 1.45, or 1.148496 to a subject if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (except asthma); and is also provided with Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.5 to 0.5, or-0.25 to 0.25, or 0 to the subject if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (except asthma); in one embodiment, the last value provided above in each standard is used. In one embodiment, the body mass index of the subject is determined using his height and weight. In one embodiment, if any of the clinical factors are unknown or the subject is not willing to provide relevant details, then the factor is assigned a beta coefficient of 0. In one embodiment, one or more or all of the clinical factors are self-assessed (self-reported). In one embodiment, the race/ethnicity is self-assessed (self-reported). In one embodiment, one or more or all of the current or previous disease states (e.g., autoimmune disease, hematologic cancer, non-hematologic cancer, diabetes, hypertension, or respiratory disease) are self-assessed (self-reported). In one embodiment, the clinical assessment includes determining the blood type of the subject. This will typically involve obtaining a sample comprising blood from the subject. The detection method used may be any suitable method known in the art. In an embodiment, a genetic test as described in the examples is used, preferably simultaneously with genetic analysis, for assessing the risk of a human subject to react seriously to coronavirus infection. For example, three SNPs in the ABO gene on chromosome 9q34.2 (i.e., rs505922, rs8176719, and rs 8176746) can be used to interpolate ABO blood type. The deletion of rs8176719 (or those without outcome for rs8176719, the T allele at rs 505922) represents haplotype O. At rs8176746 haplotype a is represented by the presence of the G allele and haplotype B is represented by the presence of the T allele (see table 7). In one embodiment, the subject is classified using an international disease classification (ICD) system, whether or not the subject has or has had a particular disease state (also referred to herein as 'once diagnosed'). Thus, the first and second substrates are bonded together, asthma is based on ICD9 (493 x) and ICD10 (J45 x and J46), autoimmune (rheumatoid/lupus/psoriasis) is indicated according to ICD9 (954, 696, 7100, 714, 7140 and 7142) and ICD10 (J990, L40, L41, M05-M07 and M32), hematological cancers are based on ICD9 (200-208) and ICD10 (c81-c86, c88 and c90-c96), non-hematologic cancers are indicated by ICD9 (140-165, 169-175, 179-195, and 196-199) and ICD10 (C00-C26, C30-C34, C37-C58, C60-C80, C97), cerebrovascular diseases are indicated according to ICD9 (430-438) and ICD10 (G46 and I60-I69), diabetes is based on ICD9 (250 x) and ICD10 (E10 x-E14 x), heart disease is based on ICD9 (413-416, V422, V432-V434) and ICD10 (I20-I25, I48, Z95), hypertension is according to ICD9 (401 x, 405 x, 6420-6422) and ICD10 (I10 x, I15 x, O10 x), immune dysfunction is a disease according to ICD9 (V420, V421, V426, V427, V429, 042, 043, 044, 279, 2790) and ICD10 (B20-B24, D80-D84, Z940-Z944, Z949), Kidney disease is based on ICD9 (585 x) and ICD10 (N18 x), liver disease is according to ICD9 (571) and ICD10 (K70-K77), and respiratory diseases (excluding asthma) are defined by ICD9 (494-496, 500, 501-508, 491, 492, 496) and ICD10 (J60-J70, J80-J82, J84-J86, J90-J96, J98, J41-J44). Table 7-SNPS and ABO interpolation. Combined clinical and genetic evaluation In one embodiment, to obtain a 'risk' of a human subject to react severely to coronavirus infection, the following formula may be used: ln (risk) =model intercept Percentage of number of +OR x risk alleles +OR if clinical factor one is applied +OR if clinical factor II is applied +OR if clinical factor three is used +OR if clinical factor n is applied. Where OR = odds ratio. In one embodiment, to obtain a 'risk' of a human subject to react severely to coronavirus infection, the following formula may be used: ln (risk) =model intercept Percentage of number of +OR x risk alleles +or if age group = 18 to 29 years oldOr alternatively +or if age group = 30 to 39 years oldOr alternatively +or if age group = 40 to 49 years oldOr alternatively +or if age group = 60 to 69 years old Or alternatively +or if age group = 70+year old +or if sex = male +or if race = non-caucasian +or if ABO blood group = aOr alternatively +or if ABO blood group = BOr alternatively +or if ABO blood group = AB +or if/when suffering from autoimmune disease (i.e. rheumatoid arthritis, lupus OR psoriasis) =is +or if/once suffering from hematologic cancer = is +or if/had non-hematologic cancer = is +or if/had diabetes = is +or if/had hypertension = is +or if/had respiratory disease (except asthma) =is Where OR = odds ratio Using the above formula, the relative risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is: risk=e ln (risk) 。 In one embodiment, to obtain a 'risk' of a human subject to react severely to coronavirus infection, the following formula may be used: ln (risk) = -10.7657 Percentage of number of +0.1717x risk alleles + -1.3111 if age group = 18 to 29 years old + -0.8348 if age group = 30 to 39 years old + -0.4038 if age group = 40 to 49 years old + -0.0600 if age group = 60 to 69 years old +0.5325 if age group = 70+year old +0.1387 if sex = male +0.3542 if race = non-caucasian + -0.2164 if ABO blood group = a + -0.1712 if ABO blood group = B + -0.8746 if ABO blood group = AB +0.7876 if/were to have autoimmune disease (i.e. rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or psoriasis) =is +1.0375 if/once suffering from hematological cancer = yes +0.3667 if/had non-hematologic cancer = is +0.4890 if/when diabetes mellitus = is +0.3034 if/when hypertension = is present +1.2331 if/had respiratory disease (except asthma) =is Using this formula, the relative risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is: risk=e ln(risk) 。 In one embodiment of the above formula, the onset ln (model intercept) is-12.5559 to-8.9755, or-12 to-8 or-11 to-10.5. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the starting ln (risk) for the percentage of risk alleles is 0.142 to 0.2006, or 0.16 to 0.18. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) for ages 18 to 29 is-1.5 to-1, or-1.4 to-1.2. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) for ages 30 to 39 is-1 to-0.7, or-0.9 to-0.8. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) for ages 40 to 49 is-0.6 to-0.2, or-0.45 to-0.35. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) for ages 60 to 69 is-0.3819 to 0.2619, or-0.1 to 0.1. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment for the initial ln (risk) for age 70+ is 0.2213 to 0.8438, or 0.43 to 0.63. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the starting ln (risk) for men is-0.1005 to 0.3779, or 0.03 to 0.23. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the starting ln (risk) for non-caucasians is-0.0084 to 0.7167, or 0.25 to 0.45. In one embodiment of the above formula, the initial ln (risk) for blood group a is adjusted to be-0.4726 to 0.0397, or-0.11 to-0.31. In one embodiment of the above formula, the initial ln (risk) adjustment for blood group B is-0.2348 to 0.5773, or 0.07 to 0.27. In one embodiment of the above formula, the initial ln (risk) adjustment for the AB blood group is-1.5087 to-0.2404, or-0.77 to-0.97. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment to the onset ln (risk) for humans suffering from or having suffered from rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or psoriasis is 0.1832 to 1.3920, or 0.68 to 0.88. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the initial ln (risk) for humans suffering from or having had a hematological cancer is 0.0994 to 1.9756, or 0.93 to 1.13. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the onset ln (risk) for humans with or who have had non-hematologic cancers is 0.0401 to 0.6933, or 0.26 to 0.46. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the onset ln (risk) for humans with or having diabetes is from 0.1450 to 0.8330, or from 0.39 to 0.59. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the initial ln (risk) for humans suffering from or having suffered from hypertension is 0.0313 to 0.5756, or 0.2 to 0.4. In one embodiment of the above formula, the adjustment of the starting ln (risk) for humans suffering from or having suffered from respiratory disease (not including asthma) is 0.9317 to 0.1535, or 1.13 to 1.33. In an alternative embodiment, and as outlined above, the method comprises determining a log probability (LO). For example, LO may be calculated using the following equation: LO = X + SRF + Σclinicalbeta coefficient In one embodiment, SRF is a SNP risk factor that is: Σ (number of risk alleles x SNP beta coefficient). In one embodiment, a relative risk is determined. In one embodiment, the relative risk is determined using the following formula: Relative risk=e LO In one embodiment, a probability is determined. In one embodiment, the probability is determined using the following equation: probability=e LO /(1+e LO ) 'e' is a mathematical constant that is the base of the natural logarithm. In one embodiment, the probability obtained by the above equation is multiplied by 100 to obtain the percent likelihood of severe response to coronavirus infection (e.g., requiring hospitalization). In an embodiment, the genetic risk assessment involves analysis of rs10755709, rs112317747, rs112641600, rs118072448, rs2034831, rs7027911, and rs 71481792. In one embodiment, X is-1.8 to-0.8, or-1.6, or-1.15. In one embodiment, X is-1.36523. In one embodiment, for each G (risk) allele present at rs10755709, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.08 to 0.32, or 0.02 to 0.22, or 0.124239. Thus, for example, a subject may be assigned a β coefficient of 0.248478 if the subject is homozygous for the at-risk allele, a β coefficient of 0.124239 if the subject is heterozygous for the at-risk allele, and a β coefficient of 0.248478 if the subject is homozygous for the non-at-risk allele (C at rs 10755709). In one embodiment, for each C (risk) allele present at rs112317747, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of 0.07 to 0.47, or 0.17 to 0.37 or 0.2737487. In one embodiment, for each T (risk) allele present at rs112641600, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.43 to-0.03, or-0.33 to-0.13, or-0.2362513. In one embodiment, for each C (risk) allele present at rs118072448, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.4 to 0, or-0.3 to-0.1, or-0.1995879. In one embodiment, for each C (risk) allele present at rs2034831, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of 0.04 to 0.44, or 0.14 to 0.34 or 0.2371955. In one embodiment, for each a (risk) allele present at rs7027911, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.1 to 0.3, or 0 to 0.2, or 0.1019074. In one embodiment, for each T (risk) allele present at rs71481792, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.3 to 0.1, or-0.2 to 0, or-0.1058025. In an embodiment, the Σclinical β coefficients are determined as described above, such as decomposing the β coefficients for each of: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). In an embodiment, the genetic risk assessment involves analysis of rs10755709, rs112317747, rs112641600, rs118072448, rs2034831, rs7027911, rs71481792, rs115492982, and rs 1984162. In one embodiment, X is-2 to-1.5, or-1.75, or-1.25. In one embodiment, X is-1.469939. In one embodiment, for each G (risk) allele present at rs10755709, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.08 to 0.32, or 0.02 to 0.22, or 0.1231766. Thus, for example, a subject may be assigned a β coefficient of 0.2463532 if the subject is homozygous for the at-risk allele, a β coefficient of 0.1231766 if the subject is heterozygous for the at-risk allele, and a β coefficient of 0.248478 if the subject is homozygous for the non-at-risk allele (C at rs 10755709). In one embodiment, for each C (risk) allele present at rs112317747, the subject is assigned a beta coefficient of 0.06 to 0.46, or 0.16 to 0.36 or 0.2576692. In one embodiment, for each T (risk) allele present at rs112641600, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.43 to-0.03, or-0.33 to-0.13, or-0.2384001. In one embodiment, for each C (risk) allele present at rs118072448, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.4 to 0, or-0.3 to-0.1, or-0.1965609. In one embodiment, for each C (risk) allele present at rs2034831, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of 0.04 to 0.44, or 0.14 to 0.34, or 0.2414792. In one embodiment, for each a (risk) allele present at rs7027911, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.1 to 0.3, or 0 to 0.2, or 0.0998459. In one embodiment, for each T (risk) allele present at rs71481792, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.3 to 0.1, or-0.2 to 0, or-0.1032044. In one embodiment, for each a (risk) allele present at rs115492982, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of 0.21 to 0.61, or 0.31 to 0.51, or 0.4163575. In one embodiment, for each a (risk) allele present at rs1984162, the subject is assigned a β coefficient of-0.1 to 0.3, or 0 to 0.2, or 0.1034362. In an embodiment, the Σclinical β coefficients are determined as described above, such as decomposing the β coefficients for each of: age, sex, race/race, blood type, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has suffered from or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has suffered or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, whether the human has suffered from or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). Any of the above calculations may be performed on non-SNP polymorphisms or combinations thereof. In another embodiment, when combining clinical risk assessment with genetic risk assessment to obtain a 'risk' of a human subject to react severely to coronavirus infection, the following formula may be used: [ risk (i.e., clinical assessment of x SNP risk)]= [ clinical assessment risk ]]x SNP 1 x SNP 2 xSNP 3 x SNP 4 x SNP 5 x SNP 6 x SNP 7 x SNP 8 …x SNP N Etc. In clinical evaluation is the risk provided by clinical evaluation and SNP 1 To SNP (Single nucleotide polymorphism) N In the case of relative risk of a single SNP, each SNP is scaled as outlined above to have a population average of 1. Because the SNP risk values have been 'pooled' as having a population average risk of 1, if independence between SNPs is assumed, the population average risk across all genotypes for the combined valuesConsistent with the underlying clinical assessment risk assessment. In one embodiment, the genetic risk assessment is combined with a clinical risk assessment to obtain a 'relative risk' of a human subject in response to a severe coronavirus infection. When evaluating genetic risk alone, the threshold may be set as described above. In one example, when using the embodiment of the test described in example 5, the threshold may be set to at least 5, at least 6, at least 7, at least 8, at least 9, or at least 10. If set to 5 in this example, the risk score for about 10% of the british biological sample library population exceeds 5.0, yielding the following performance characteristics for testing: Sensitivity 38.41% Specificity 93.79% Positive predictive value 91.78% Negative predictive value 45.76% As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, various thresholds may be set to change performance depending on the level of risk that the entity under test is willing to accept. The threshold value may be changed to the most appropriate value depending on the end use of the test. Marker detection strategy Amplification primers for amplifying markers (e.g., marker loci) and suitable probes for detecting such markers or for genotyping a sample for multiple marker alleles can be used in the present disclosure. Primer selection for remote PCR is described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 10/042,406 and U.S. Pat. No. 10/236,480; for short-range PCR, U.S. Pat. No. 10/341,832 provides guidance regarding primer selection. In addition, there are publicly available procedures such as 'Oligo' that can be used for primer design. Using such available primer selection and design software, publicly available human genomic sequences and polymorphic positions, one of skill in the art can construct primers to amplify polymorphisms, thereby practicing the present disclosure. In addition, it should be understood that the precise probes used to detect nucleic acids comprising polymorphisms (e.g., amplicons comprising polymorphisms) may vary, e.g., any probe that can identify the region of a marker amplicon to be detected may be used in connection with the present disclosure. In addition, the configuration of the detection probes may of course vary. Thus, the present disclosure is not limited to the sequences recited herein. Examples of primer pairs for detecting some of the SNPs disclosed herein include: rs11549298 (ACCTGGTATCAGTGAAGAGGATCAG (SEQ ID NO: 1) and TCTTGATACAACTGTAAGAAGTGGT (SEQ ID NO: 2)), rs112317747 (TATTTCTTTGTTGCCCTCTATCTCT (SEQ ID NO: 3) and GAAAGAGATGGGTTGGCATTATTAT (SEQ ID NO: 4)), rs2034831 (TAAAATTAGAACTGGAGGGCTGGGT (SEQ ID NO: 5) and TGGCATTATAAACACTCACTGAAGT (SEQ ID NO: 6)), rs112641600 (AATGCCATCTGATGAGAGAAGTTTT (SEQ ID NO: 7) and TACAGTTTTAAAAATGGGCGTTTCT (SEQ ID NO: 8)), rs10755709 (TATAATAACACGTGGAAGTGAAAAT (SEQ ID NO: 9) and TTGTTTGTATGTGTGAAATGATTCT (SEQ ID NO: 10)), rs118072448 (AAGCAAACTATTCTTCAGGAATCCA (SEQ ID NO: 11) and ATTTCTGCATTTCACTTTGTGTGGT (SEQ ID NO: 12)), rs7027911 (GTAAATGCTGCTAACAGAGCTCTTT (SEQ ID NO: 13) and GAAGAGAGTTTATTAGCAAGGCCTC (SEQ ID NO: 14)), rs71481792 (CATTTGGGAAAAGCCACTGAATGGA (SEQ ID NO: 15) and AGATTGACTAGCCGTTGAGAGTAGA (SEQ ID NO: 16)) and rs1984162 (ACTGACTCCTGACACTCTTGAAGCG (SEQ ID NO: 17)) and GACTCTTCTCTGGCATCTTCTCATG(SEQ ID NO:18))。 indeed, it will be appreciated that amplification is not a requirement for marker detection, for example, one may directly detect unamplified genomic DNA simply by Southern blotting a sample of genomic DNA. In general, molecular markers can be detected by the following method: any established method available in the art, including but not limited to allele-specific hybridization (ASH), extension detection, array hybridization (optionally including ASH); or other methods for detecting polymorphisms, amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism (AFLP) detection, amplified variable sequence detection, random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) detection, restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (RFLP) detection, self-sustained sequence replication detection, simple Sequence Repeat (SSR) detection, and Single Strand Conformation Polymorphism (SSCP) detection. Some techniques for detecting genetic markers utilize hybridization of a probe nucleic acid with a nucleic acid corresponding to the genetic marker (e.g., an amplified nucleic acid generated using genomic DNA as a template). Hybrid forms, including but not limited to: solution phase, solid phase, mixed phase or in situ hybridization assays may be used for allele detection. Extensive guidance for nucleic acid hybridization is found in Tijssen (1993) Biochemical and molecular biology laboratory techniques, nucleic acid probe hybridization (Laboratory Techniques in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology-Hybridization with Nucleic Acid Probes), esculent publishing, new York, N.Y., and in Sambrook et al (supra). The use of dual labeled fluorescent oligonucleotide probes (commonly referred to as 'TaqMan' in accordance with the present disclosure may also be performed TM 'probes'). These probes consist of short (e.g., 20 to 25 bases) oligodeoxynucleotides labeled with two different fluorescent dyes. A reporter dye is found on the 5 'end of each probe and a quencher dye is found on the 3' end of each probe. The oligonucleotide probe sequence is complementary to an internal target sequence present in the PCR amplicon. When the probe is intact, energy transfer occurs between the two fluorophores, and emission from the reporter is quenched by the quencher via FRET. During the extension phase of PCR, the probe is cleaved by the 5' nuclease activity of the polymerase used in the reaction, thereby releasing the reporter from the oligonucleotide-quencher and causing an increase in the intensity of the reporter emission. Thus, taqMan TM The probe is an oligonucleotide having a label and a quencher, wherein the label is released during amplification by exonuclease action of a polymerase used in the amplification. This provides a real-time measure of amplification during synthesis. Various TaqMan TM The reagent may be obtained, for example, from applied biosystems company (Applied Biosystems) (division headquarters of foster city, california (Div) ision Headquarters in Foster City, calif.) and various specialty suppliers, such as biological valley hunting technology company (Biosearch Technologies) (e.g., black hole quencher probes). Additional details regarding dual label probe strategies can be found, for example, in WO 92/02638. Other similar methods include, for example, fluorescence resonance energy transfer between two adjacently hybridized probes, for example using the methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,174,670Form of the invention. Array-based assays can be performed using, for example, arrays commercially available from the us Affymetrix (Santa Clara, calif.) or other manufacturers. An overview of the operation of nucleic acid arrays includes Sapolsky et al (1999); lockhart (1998); fodor (1997 a); fodor (1997 b) and che et al (1996). Array-based detection is one preferred method for identifying markers of the present disclosure in a sample due to the inherent high throughput nature of array-based detection. The nucleic acid sample to be analyzed is isolated, amplified, and labeled with biotin and/or a fluorescent reporter group. The labeled nucleic acid samples were then incubated with the array using a fluidic workstation and hybridization oven. The array may be washed and or stained or counter-stained, depending on the detection method. After hybridization, washing and staining, the array is inserted into a scanner where the pattern of hybridization is detected. Hybridization data is collected as light emitted from fluorescent reporter groups that have been incorporated into labeled nucleic acids that are now bound to the probe array. Probes that most clearly match the labeled nucleic acid produce a stronger signal than probes with mismatches. Since the sequence and position of each probe on the array is known, the identity of the nucleic acid sample applied to the probe array can be identified by complementarity. DNA sequencing can also be used to detect markers and polymorphisms. DNA sequencing methods are well known in the art and can be found, for example, in Ausubel et al, programming guidelines for molecular biology experiments (Short Protocols in Molecular Biology), 3 rd edition, wiley publishing company (Wiley), (1995) and Sambrook et al, molecular cloning (Molecular Cloning), 2 nd edition, chapter 13, cold spring harbor laboratory Press (1989). Sequencing may be performed by any suitable method, for example, dideoxy sequencing, chemical sequencing, or variations thereof. Suitable sequencing methods also include second-, third-, or fourth-generation sequencing technologies, all referred to herein as 'next generation sequencing', including, but not limited to pyrosequencing, sequencing by ligation, single molecule sequencing, sequencing By Synthesis (SBS), massively parallel cloning, massively parallel single molecule SBS, massively parallel single molecule real-time nanopore technologies, and the like. A review of some such techniques can be found in (Morozova and Marra, 2008), which are incorporated herein by reference. Thus, in some embodiments, performing a genetic risk assessment as described herein involves detecting the at least two polymorphisms by DNA sequencing. In one embodiment, the at least two polymorphisms are detected by next generation sequencing. The Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) methods share a common feature of large-scale and high-throughput strategies, with the goal of reducing costs compared to older sequencing methods (see volkerding et al, 2009; maclean et al, 2009). Many such DNA sequencing techniques are known in the art, including fluorescence-based sequencing methods. In some embodiments, automated sequencing techniques are used. In some embodiments, parallel sequencing of zoned amplicons is used (WO 2006084132). In some embodiments, DNA sequencing is achieved by parallel oligonucleotide extension (see, e.g., US 5,750,341 and US 6,306,597). Additional examples of sequencing techniques include Church polar technology (Mitra et al, 2003; shidure et al, 2005;US 6,432,36;US 6,485,944;US 6,511,803), 454 picoter pyrophosphate sequencing technology (Margulies et al, 2005;US 20050130173), solexa single base addition technology (Bennett et al, 2005;US 6,787,308;US 6,833,246), lynx large scale parallel signature sequencing technology (Brenner et al, 2000;US 5,695,934;US 5,714,330), and Address PCR cloning technology (Address et al, 2000). Correlating markers to phenotype These correlations can be performed by any method that can identify the relationship between alleles and phenotypes, or between combinations of alleles and phenotypes. For example, the alleles as defined herein can be associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection phenotype. The method may involve referencing a look-up table comprising correlations between alleles and phenotypes of the polymorphism. The table may contain data for a plurality of allele-phenotype relationships, and may consider the addition of a plurality of allele-phenotype relationships or other higher order effects, for example, through the use of statistical tools, such as principal component analysis, heuristics, and the like. The correlation of the marker with the phenotype optionally comprises performing one or more statistical tests to obtain the correlation. Many statistical tests are known and most are computer implemented for ease of analysis. Various statistical methods of determining associations/correlations between phenotypic traits and biomarkers are known and may be applied to the present disclosure (Hartl et al, 1981). Various suitable statistical models are described in Lynch and Walsh (1998). These models may, for example, provide correlations between genotype values and phenotype values, characterize the effect of loci on phenotype, sort out relationships between environment and genotype, determine dominant or exotic rates of genes, determine maternal and other epigenetic effects, determine principal components in analysis (by principal component analysis or 'PCA'), and the like. The references cited in these texts provide considerable further details regarding statistical models for correlating markers and phenotypes. In addition to standard statistical methods for determining correlation, other methods for determining correlation by pattern recognition and training (e.g., using genetic algorithms) may be used to determine correlation between markers and phenotypes. This is particularly useful when higher order correlations between multiple alleles and multiple phenotypes are identified. To illustrate, neural network methodologies may be coupled to heuristically developed genetic algorithm-type programming of a structure-function data space model for determining correlations between genetic information and phenotypic outcomes. In any event, essentially any statistical test can be applied to the computer-implemented model by standard programming methods or using various 'off the shelf' packages that perform such statistical analysis, including, for example, the packages mentioned above, as well as, for example, packages commercially available from Partek Incorporated company (Partek Incorporated) (St. Peters, mo.); www.partek.com) that provide software for pattern recognition (e.g., the packages provide Partek Pro 2000 pattern recognition software). Systems for performing the above-described correlations are also a feature of the present disclosure. Typically, the system will comprise system instructions that correlate the presence or absence of an allele (whether detected directly or, for example, by expression levels) with a predicted phenotype. Optionally, the system instructions may also include software that accepts diagnostic information related to any detected allele information, e.g., a diagnosis that a subject having the associated allele has a particular phenotype. Such software may be heuristic in nature, using the correlation of such inputs to improve the accuracy of the look-up table and/or the interpretation of the look-up table by the system. Various such methods are described above, including neural networks, markov modeling (Markov modeling), and other statistical analysis. Polymorphism profiling The present disclosure provides methods of determining a polymorphism profile of an individual at a polymorphism summarized in the present disclosure (e.g., tables 1-3, 5a or 6, or tables 1-6, 8, 19 or 22) or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. The polymorphism profile constitutes the polymorphic form occupying each polymorphic site in an individual. In a diploid genome, two polymorphic forms, identical or different from each other, typically occupy each polymorphic site. Thus, the polymorphism profiles at positions X and Y can be expressed in the form of X (X1, X1) and Y (Y1, Y2), where X1, X1 represents two copies of allele X1 occupying position X, and Y1, Y2 represents the heterozygous allele occupying position Y. The individual's polymorphism profile may be scored by comparison with polymorphic forms associated with resistance or susceptibility to severe reactions to coronavirus infection occurring at each locus. The comparison can be made, for example, at least at 1, 2, 5, 10, 25, 50 or all of the polymorphic sites and optionally other polymorphic sites in linkage disequilibrium therewith. Polymorphic sites may be analyzed in combination with other polymorphic sites. Polymorphic profiling may be used, for example, to select agents that affect the treatment or prevention of severe responses to coronavirus infection in a given individual. Individuals with similar polymorphism profiles may respond to agents in a similar manner. Polymorphism profiling can also be used to stratify individuals in clinical trials tested for the ability of treatment to have a severe response to coronavirus infection or related conditions. Such tests are performed on treated or control populations having similar or identical polymorphism profiles (see EP 99965095.5), e.g., polymorphism profiles indicating that an individual has an increased risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection. The use of genetically matched populations eliminates or reduces the variation in therapeutic outcome due to genetic factors, resulting in a more accurate assessment of the efficacy of potential drugs. Polymorphism profiling is also useful for eliminating individuals from clinical trials who have no severe propensity to respond to coronavirus infection. Inclusion of such individuals in the assay increases the population size required to obtain statistically significant results. Individuals that are not prone to severe response to coronavirus infection can be identified by determining the number of resistant and susceptible alleles in a polymorphic profile as described above. For example, if a subject is genotyped at ten sites of the present disclosure that are associated with severe response to a coronavirus infection, a total of twenty alleles are determined. If more than 50% and alternatively more than 60% or 75% of these alleles are resistance genes, the individual is unlikely to react severely to coronavirus infection and can be excluded from the trial. Computer-implemented method The methods of the present disclosure may be implemented by a system such as a computer-implemented method. For example, the system may be a computer system including one or more processors (referred to as 'processors' for convenience) coupled to a memory that may operate together. The memory may be a non-transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive, a solid state disk, or a CD-ROM. Software (which is executable instructions or program code, such as program code grouped into code modules) may be stored on a memory and when executed by a processor may cause a computer system to perform functions such as determining that tasks are to be performed to help a user determine a risk of a human subject to react severely to coronavirus infection; receiving data indicative of a clinical risk assessment and a genetic risk assessment of the human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, wherein the genetic risk is obtained by detecting at least two polymorphisms known to be associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection; processing the data to combine the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment to obtain a risk of a human subject to react severely to a coronavirus infection; the risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is exported. For example, the memory may include program code that, when executed by the processor, causes the system to determine at least two polymorphisms known to be associated with severe reactions to coronavirus infection; processing the data to combine the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment to obtain a risk of a human subject to respond severely to a coronavirus infection; the risk of a severe response to coronavirus infection in a human subject is reported. In another embodiment, the system may be coupled to a user interface to enable the system to receive information from a user and/or to output or display information. For example, the user interface may include a graphical user interface, a voice user interface, or a touch screen. In one embodiment, the program code may cause the system to determine a 'risk of polymorphism'. In an embodiment, the program code may cause the system to determine a combined clinical risk x genetic risk (e.g., a polymorphism risk). In an embodiment, the system may be configured to communicate with at least one remote device or server over a communication network, such as a wireless communication network. For example, a system may be configured to receive information from a device or server over a communication network and transmit the information to the same or a different device or server over the communication network. In other embodiments, the system may be isolated from direct user interaction. In another embodiment, the methods of the present disclosure are performed to assess the risk of a human subject to react severely to a coronavirus infection, enabling the establishment of a diagnostic or prognostic rule based on the clinical risk assessment and genetic risk assessment of the human subject to react severely to a coronavirus infection. For example, a diagnostic or prognostic rule can be based on a combined clinical risk x genetic risk score relative to a control, standard, or threshold risk level. In another embodiment, the diagnostic or prognostic rules are based on the application of statistical and machine learning algorithms. This algorithm uses the relationship between the polymorphic population and the disease states observed in the training data (with known disease states) to infer a relationship, which is then used to determine the risk of a serious response to coronavirus infection in a human subject at unknown risk. Algorithms are employed that provide a risk of a human subject to react severely to coronavirus infection. The algorithm performs a multivariate or univariate analysis function. Kit and product In one embodiment, the present disclosure provides a kit comprising at least two sets of primers for amplifying two or more nucleic acids, wherein the two or more nucleic acids comprise a polymorphism selected from any one of tables 1 to 3, 5a, or 6, or tables 1 to 6, 8, 19, or 22, or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 primers for amplifying a nucleic acid comprising a polymorphism selected from any one of tables 1 to 3, 5a, or 6, or tables 1 to 6, 8, 19, or 22, or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 primers for amplifying a nucleic acid comprising a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the group consisting of the polymorphisms of table 2 and table 3 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, or at least 60 primers for amplifying a nucleic acid comprising a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the polymorphisms of table 4 or table 6 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, or at least 60 primers for amplifying a nucleic acid comprising a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the group consisting of the polymorphisms of table 4 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, or at least 50 primers for amplifying a nucleic acid comprising a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the polymorphisms of table 3 or table 6a or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, or at least 50 primers for amplifying a nucleic acid comprising a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the polymorphisms of table 3 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises a primer set for amplifying a nucleic acid comprising one or more or all of the polymorphisms provided in table 19 or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises a primer set for amplifying a nucleic acid comprising one or more or all of the polymorphisms provided in table 22 or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, once a polymorphism is identified, the primers can be designed to amplify the polymorphism in a conventional manner. Various software programs for amplifying suitable primers for the polymorphism of interest may be suggested to be freely available. Also, as known to those skilled in the art, PCR primers of a PCR primer pair may be designed to specifically amplify a region of interest from human DNA. Each PCR primer of the PCR primer pair may be placed adjacent to a particular single base variation at opposite sites of the DNA sequence variation. In addition, PCR primers can be designed to avoid any known DNA sequence variations and repetitive DNA sequences in their PCR primer binding sites. The kit may further comprise other reagents required for performing the amplification reaction, such as buffers, nucleotides and/or polymerase, and reagents for extracting nucleic acids from a sample. Array-based detection is one preferred method for assessing polymorphisms of the present disclosure in a sample due to the inherently high throughput nature of array-based detection. Various probe arrays have been described in the literature and can be used in the context of the present disclosure to detect polymorphisms that can be associated with severe reactions to coronavirus infection. For example, a DNA probe array chip is used in one embodiment of the present disclosure. The DNA probe set recognizes the sample DNA by DNA hybridization. When a DNA sample hybridizes to an array of DNA probes, the sample binds to those probes that are complementary to the sample DNA sequence. By assessing which probes the sample DNA of an individual hybridizes more strongly, it is possible to determine whether a known nucleic acid sequence is present in the sample, and thus whether a marker found in the nucleic acid is present. Thus, in another embodiment, the present disclosure provides a genetic array comprising at least two sets of probes for hybridization to two or more nucleic acids, wherein the two or more nucleic acids comprise a polymorphism selected from any one of tables 1 to 3, 5a or 6, or tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22, or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 probes for hybridizing to a polymorphism selected from any one of tables 1 to 3, 5a, or 6, or tables 1 to 6, 8, 19, or 22, or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 probes for hybridizing to a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the group consisting of the polymorphisms of table 2 and table 3 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, or at least 60 sets of probes for hybridizing to a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the polymorphisms of tables 4 and 5 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, or at least 60 sets of probes for hybridizing to a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the polymorphisms of table 4 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, or at least 50 sets of probes for hybridizing to a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the polymorphisms of table 3 or table 6a or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit comprises at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, or at least 50 sets of probes for hybridizing to a single nucleotide polymorphism selected from the polymorphisms of table 3 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit includes probes for hybridizing to one or more or all of the polymorphisms provided in table 19 or single nucleotide polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. In one embodiment, the kit includes probes for hybridizing to one or more or all of the polymorphisms provided in table 22 or single nucleotide polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. Primers and probes for other polymorphisms may be included in the kits exemplified above. For example, primers and/or probes for detecting coronavirus (e.g., SARS-CoV-2 virus) infection may be included. Examples EXAMPLE 1 polymorphism related to disease severity in Covid-19 infected patients Approximately 1100 ten thousand SNP results were analyzed. These results were classified by p-value from lowest to highest, and the highest 100 of these results were used for further pruning. This is equivalent to all variants p <0.0969. A p-value threshold of p.ltoreq.0.001 is then applied, such as a window of beta values between-1 and an average combined allele frequency of 0.01 to 0.99. The R2 threshold was then set to <0.5 using the EUR population as a reference, and these results were further trimmed to obtain linkage disequilibrium using the online tool LDLink, snpclip (https:// ldlink.nci.nih.gov/. Non-single nucleotide variants are excluded if there are no linked surrogate/surrogate SNPs available. Table 2 provides information polymorphisms derived from publicly available pooled whole genome association study (GWAS) results from 716 cases (diagnosed COVID-19 (Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)) diagnosed and hospitalized) and 616 controls (diagnosed COVID-19 and non-hospitalized). Information polymorphism derived from 2,863 patients in the british biological sample library study, of which 825 were hospitalized for severe response to infection. GWAS results are classified according to p-value. A p-value threshold of p <0.00001 is applied, e.g. the allele frequency threshold is set at a minor allele frequency >0.01. Table 8 provides the identified polymorphisms. Example 2-genetic Risk assessment-108 polymorphism group The estimated Odds Ratio (OR) and risk allele frequency (p) for each allele is used to calculate a SNP-based (relative) risk score, assuming independent and additive risk on a log OR scale. For each SNP, the average risk of the non-scaled population is calculated as μ= (1-p) 2+2p (1-p) or+p2or2. For the three genotypes defined by the number of risk alleles (0, 1 OR 2), the adjusted risk values (where population average risk equals 1) were calculated as 1/μ, OR/μ and OR2/μ. The overall SNP-based risk score is then calculated by multiplying the adjusted risk value for each of the 108 SNPs (tables 9 and 10). Thus, the polygenic risk score can distinguish between patients in need of hospitalization who have a severe response to a diagnosed Covid-19 infection from those in need of hospitalization who have a severe response to the infection who have a diagnosed Covid-19 infection. Table 8-informative polymorphisms from 2,863 patients in british biological sample library studies. Example 3-genetic Risk assessment-58 polymorphism group The present inventors have found that a polygenic risk score can distinguish between patients in need of hospitalization who have a severe response to a diagnosed Covid-19 infection and patients in need of hospitalization who have a severe response to the infection who have a diagnosed Covid-19 infection. A model has been developed using 2,863 patients in a british biological sample library study, with 825 patients hospitalized for severe response to infection. The estimated Odds Ratio (OR) and risk allele frequency (p) for each allele is used to calculate a SNP-based (relative) risk score, assuming independent and additive risk on a log OR scale. For each SNP, the average risk of the non-scaled population is calculated as μ= (1-p) 2+2p (1-p) or+p2or2. For the three genotypes defined by the number of risk alleles (0, 1 OR 2), the adjusted risk values (where population average risk equals 1) were calculated as 1/μ, OR/μ and OR2/μ. The overall SNP-based risk score was then calculated by multiplying the adjusted risk value for each of the 58 SNPs (table 11). Table 3 provides the 58 SNPs analyzed. Thus, the polygenic risk score can distinguish between patients in need of hospitalization who have a severe response to a diagnosed Covid-19 infection from those in need of hospitalization who have a severe response to the infection who have a diagnosed Covid-19 infection. This panel performed better than the 108SNP panel described in example 2 due to the higher OR. Table 9-informative polymorphisms used in the genetic risk assessment of example 2. Example 4-combining genetic Risk assessment and clinical Risk assessment The present specification provides methods for a Covid-19 risk model that combines genetic and clinical risk assessments that can be used to distinguish cases with severe response to Covid-19 infection from controls without severe response to Covid-19 infection. The clinical risk factors incorporated into the combined model are assigned a relative risk indicative of the degree of association with the severity of Covid-19 infection, and the clinical factors are combined by multiplication with the polygenic risk scores. For example, clinical risk factor a is assigned a relative risk RRa and clinical risk factor B is assigned a relative risk RRb. The full risk score is then calculated as the multiple gene risk score xRRa x RRb = combined risk. Table 10-Performance characteristics of the 108SNP polygenic risk score used to distinguish cases with severe response to Covid-19 infection from controls without severe response to Covid-19 infection. Table 11-performance characteristics of 58SNP polygenic risk scores for distinguishing cases with severe response to Covid-19 infection from controls without severe response to Covid-19 infection. Example 5-genetic Risk assessment and clinical Risk assessment-64 polymorphism group in combination Data and eligibility The inventors extracted the covd-19 test and hospital records from the british biological sample library covd-19 data portal on 9 and 15 days 2020. In data extraction, primary care data is applicable only to more than half of the identified participants and is therefore not used in these analyses. Qualified participants were those who tested positive for covd-19 and who had SNP genotyping data and linked hospital records available. Of the 18,221 participants with the covd-19 test results, 1,713 had tested positive and of them 1,582 had both SNP and hospital data available. Severity of COVID-19 The inventors used the source of the test results as an indicator of disease severity: outpatient service represents non-severe and hospitalization represents severe. For participants with multiple test results, the disease is considered severe if at least one result is from a hospitalized patient scenario. Selection of SNPs for risk of severe COVID-19 The inventors identified 62 SNPs from publicly available (version 2) results of meta-analysis (meta-analysis) of non-hospitalized and hospitalized cases of COVID-19 by the COVID-19 host genetics planning alliance (COVID-19 host genetics plan (2020) and COVID-19 host genetics plan: results.2020, 5 month 13 day access at www.covid19hg.org/results). () P<0.0001 was used as a threshold for locus selection and hospitalization-related variants were removed in only one of the five studies contained in the meta-analysis. Then will have<Minor allele frequencies of 0.01 and variants of beta coefficients of-1 to 1 were discarded (Dayem et al, 2018). Using r 2 Threshold 0.5 linkage disequilibrium pruning was performed on 1000 genomic European populations (CEU, TSI, FIN, GBR, IBS) representing the race of the submitted population (Machiela et al, 2015). SNP variants are selected, where possible, instead of insertion-deletion variants, to facilitate laboratory validation testing. Two lead SNPs found by Ellinghaus et al (2020) that reach loci of full genome significance are also included. Thus, a set of 64 SNPs was used for severe COVID-19. Genetic risk scoring For SNPs identified from the COVID-19 host genetics program, the odds ratio of severe cases was in the range of 1.5 to 2.7 (Table 4). While the inventors generally constructed SNP relative risk scores by calculating an adjusted risk value for each SNP (where the population average is 1) using the published odds ratios and allele frequencies and then multiplying the risk for each SNP (mealife et al 2010), the size of the odds ratio for each SNP means that this approach may produce relative risk SNP scores of several orders of magnitude. Thus, to construct the SNP score for the present study, the inventors calculated the percentage of risk alleles present in genotyped SNPs for each participant as generally described in WO 2005/086770. More specifically, for each of the 64 SNPs, the subject has a score of 2 if the subject is homozygous for the at-risk allele, a score of 1 if the subject is heterozygous for the at-risk allele, and a score of 0 if the subject is homozygous for the at-risk allele. The total is then converted to a percentage for determining risk. The percentage was used instead of the count because some qualified participants had deletion data for some SNPs (9% genotyping all SNPs, 82% missing 1 to 5 SNPs, and 9% missing 6 to 15 SNPs). Interpolation of ABO genotype Three SNPs (rs 505922, rs8176719 and rs 8176746) in the ABO gene on chromosome 9q34.2 were used to interpolate blood type of the genotyped british biological sample pool participants. A deletion of rs8176719 (or those without outcome for rs8176719, the T allele at rs 505922) is believed to be indicative of haplotype O. At rs8176746 haplotype A is represented by the presence of the G allele and haplotype B is represented by the presence of the T allele (Melzer et al, 2008; wolpin et al, 2010). Clinical risk factors The risk factors for severe COVID-19 were identified from electronic health records (Williamson et al 2020; petrill et al 2020) published on disease control and prevention center websites and from a number of epidemiological studies suggested. Rare monogenic diseases (thalassemia, cystic fibrosis and sickle cell disease) were not considered in these assays. Age was classified as 50 to 59 years, 60 to 69 years, and 70+ years. This is calculated based on the approximate age of the participant at the peak of the first wave infection (4 months in 2020) and using the birth month and year of the participant. Self-reported ethnicities are classified as white and other (including unknown). The Townsend deprivation score at baseline was divided into five quantiles defined by the overall score distribution of the UK biological sample library. Body mass index and smoking status are also obtained from baseline assessment data. The body mass index is inversely transformed and then multiplied by 10 to rescale. Smoking status is defined as current versus past, never or unknown. Other clinical risk factors are extracted from the hospital record by selecting a record of the disease of interest with ICD9 or ICD10 codes. Statistical method Logistic regression was used to examine the association of risk factors with the severity of the covd-19 disease. To develop the final model, the inventors began with a base model containing SNP scores, age groups, and gender. The base model then contains all of the candidate variables and uses stepwise backward selection to remove variables with p-value > 0.05. The final model is refined by adding the removed candidate variables one at a time. Model selection is informed by examining the red pool information criterion (the Akaike information criterion) and the bayesian information criterion (the Bayesian information criterion), wherein a decrease of >2 indicates a statistically significant improvement. Model calibration was assessed using a Pearson-Windmeijer goodness-of-fit test (Pearson-Windmeijer goodness-of-fit test) and determined using an area measurement model under the recipient operating characteristics curve (AUC). To compare the effect magnitude of the variables in the final model, the inventors used virtual variables of age group and ABO blood group, using the probability of each adjusted standard deviation (Hopper, 2015). The intercept and beta coefficients from the final model were used to calculate the covd-19 risk scores for all uk biological sample library participants. Analysis was performed using Stata (version 16.1) (StataCorp LLC): college Station, texas, USA, university of Texas, USA); all statistical tests were bilateral and p-values less than 0.05 were considered nominally statistically significant. Results Of the 1,582 uk biological sample library participants with positive SARS-CoV-2 test results and available hospital and SNP data, 564 participants (35.7%) were from the outpatient setting and were considered to have no severe symptoms (control), while 1,018 participants (64.4%) were from the inpatient setting and were considered to have severe symptoms (cases). The age of the cases ranged from 51 to 82 years, with an average of 69.1 years (standard deviation [ SD ] =8.8). The age of the control ranged from 50 years to 82 years, with an average of 65.0 years (sd=9.0). The average body mass index of the cases was 29.0kg/m2 (sd=5.4), and the average body mass index of the control was 28.5 (sd=5.4). For all analyses, body mass index was converted to reciprocal multiplied by 10, and for both cases and controls, the body mass index ranged from 0.2 to 0.6. The percentage of risk alleles for cases in SNP scores ranged from 47.6 to 73.8, and the percentage of risk alleles for controls ranged from 43.7 to 72.5. Table 12 shows the distribution of variables of interest for the cases and controls, along with the unadjusted odds ratio and 95% Confidence Interval (CI). The selected model contained a history of SNP scores, age group, gender, race, ABO blood group, and autoimmune disease (rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, or psoriasis), hematological cancer, non-hematological cancer, diabetes, hypertension, or respiratory disease (excluding asthma), and fit well to the data (h=0.02, p=0.9) table 13. SNP scoring is closely related to the severity of the disease, with a 19% increase in risk for each percentage increase in risk allele. The negative effect of age is only apparent in the group aged 70 years and older, and although gender is not statistically significant (p=0.3), gender is retained because gender is one of the three variables of the base model to which other variables are added. The risk of race for non-white people was shown to increase by 43% but only slightly statistically significant (p=0.06). The AB blood group was protective (p=0.007), but the protection of the a blood group and the increased risk of the B blood group were not statistically significant (p=0.1 and p=0.4, respectively). To date, SNP scoring is the strongest predictor, followed by respiratory disease and age 70 years or older. FIG. 1 shows the final model and has only clinical factors; SNP scoring alone; and recipient performance curves for alternative models of age and gender. AUC for SNP score alone was 0.680 (95% ci= 0.652,0.708). AUC for the model with age and gender was 0.635 (95% ci= 0.607,0.662), while AUC for the model with clinical factors only was 0.723 (95% ci= 0.698,0.749). Given a minimum possible value of AUC of 0.5, the model with clinical factors only was 65% improved compared to the model with age and gender (χ2=57.97, df=1, p < 0.001). AUC of the combined model was 0.786 (95% ci= 0.763,0.808) and increased by 28% compared to the model with clinical factors only (χ2=39.54, df=1, p < 0.001) and 111% compared to the model with age and gender (χ2=113.67, df=1, p < 0.001). Table 12-characteristics of cases and controls, unadjusted odds ratio of risks of severe covd-19. Table 13-last model of risk of severe covd-19 given a positive test. * Note that: the beta coefficient is the natural logarithm of the probability ratio; the estimates for age groups 18-29, 30-39, and 40-49 are based on information on page 9 of the disease control center covtview report on month 8 and 1 of 2020. Figure 2 shows the differences in the distribution of the covd-19 risk scores in the case and the control. The median score for the case was 3.35 and the median score for the control was 0.90. Fifteen percent of cases and 53% of controls have a covd-19 risk score less than 1, and 18% of cases and 25% of controls have a score of 1 or greater and <2. The covd-19 risk score ≡2 cases are more common than in controls, with 13% of cases and 9% of controls having a score ≡2 and <3,8% of cases and 4% of controls having a score ≡3 and <4, and 38% of cases and 6% of controls having a score ≡4. Figure 3 shows that the distribution of the covd-19 risk scores across the whole uk biological sample library is similar to that of the control in figure 2 b. The median risk score for the whole british biological sample pool was 1.32. Thirty-eight percent of the british biological sample library had a covd-19 risk score of less than 1, while 29% had a score of greater than or equal to 1 and <2, 13% had a score of greater than or equal to 2 and <3,6% had a score of greater than or equal to 3 and <2, and 14% had a score of 4 or greater. Example 6-combined genetic Risk assessment and clinical Risk assessment-7 and 10 polymorphism groups To further improve the method of the invention, the inventors downloaded updated results files from the british biological sample library on day 1, 8 of 2021. Qualified participants were active uk biological sample library participants with positive SARS-CoV-2 test results and available SNPs and hospital data. Of the 47,990 uk biological sample library participants with available SARS-CoV-2 test results, 8,672 participants (18.1%) had positive test results and 7,621 of them met the eligibility criteria. The inventors used the source of the test results as an indicator of disease severity, with inpatient results being considered critical (cases) and outpatient results being considered non-critical (controls). If a participant has more than one test result, classifying the participant as suffering from a severe condition if at least one of the participant's test results is from a hospitalized patient scenario. Of the 7,621 qualified participants, 2,205 participants were cases and 5,416 participants were controls. The inventors identified another 40 SNPs from publicly available (4 th edition) results of meta-analysis of non-hospitalized cases and hospitalized cases of COVID-19 by the COVID-19 host genetics planning alliance (COVID-19 host genetics plan (2020) and COVID-19 host genetics plan: results 2020, 7-1-month day of 2020 at www.covid19hg.org/results visit). P <0.0001 was used as a threshold for locus selection and hospitalization-related variants were removed in only one of the five studies contained in meta-analysis. Variants with minor allele frequencies <0.01 and beta coefficients of-1 to 1 are then discarded (Dayem et al, 2018). 1000 genomic European populations (CEU, TSI, FIN, GBR, IBS) representing the race of the submitted population were linkage disequilibrium trimmed using an r2 threshold of 0.5 (Machiela et al, 2015). SNP variants are selected, where possible, instead of insertion-deletion variants, to facilitate laboratory validation testing. Another 12 SNPs were identified from a meta-analysis of the publicly available Covid-19 data (Pairo-Castineira et al 2020). The above identified SNPs were combined with the 64 SNPs identified in the original study to provide a test SNP panel of 116 SNPs. To develop a new model for predicting the risk of severe covd-19, the inventors used all available data and randomly split it into 70% training data set and 30% validation data set (ensuring source balance data for test results). Because the missing data is assumed to be randomly missing (if not completely randomly missing), multiple interpolations with 20 interpolations are used to solve for the missing data for body mass index (linear regression) and the SNP data for development of a new model in the training dataset (predictive average matching). To closely reflect the availability of data in the real world, the inventors did not use interpolated data in the validation dataset. The clinical variables considered for inclusion in the new model are age, gender, BMI, race, ABO blood group and the following chronic health conditions: asthma, autoimmune diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or psoriasis), cancers of the blood system, non-blood system, cerebrovascular diseases, diabetes, heart diseases, hypertension, impaired immune function, kidney diseases, liver diseases and respiratory diseases (excluding asthma). Virtual variables are used for category classification of age and ABO blood group. SNPs selected for developing new models come from three sources: (i) from tables 2 to 4; (ii) 40 SNPs newly selected from the results of meta analysis of the COVID-19 host genetic program (4 th edition) of non-hospitalized cases and hospitalized cases of COVID-191 2; and (iii) 12 SNPs from the paper of Pairo-Castineira et al (2020). The inventors used unadjusted logistic regression in the test dataset to identify the SNPS associated with the risk of severe covd-19 of P <0.05 (see table 14). Analysis was performed using Stata (version 16.1); all statistical tests were double-sided and P <0.05 was considered nominally statistically significant. Table 14-information polymorphism assessed in example 6. Development of new models The inventors developed a new model using multivariate logistic regression in the multiple interpolated training dataset to predict the risk of severe covd-19. The inventors began with a model containing all clinical variables and SNPs with unregulated association with severe covd-19, and developed the simplest model using a step-back selection. For the removed variables, a final determination is made of inclusion or exclusion of the variables by adding the variables one at a time to the reduced model. In order to directly compare the effect magnitude of the variables in the final model, the probability of each adjusted standard deviation is used, regardless of the scale at which the variables are measured. Intercept and beta coefficients from the new model for calculating the covd-19 risk score were used for all qualified uk biological sample library participants. Model Performance The inventors evaluated the performance of the new model in both the interpolated development dataset and the non-interpolated validation dataset. The association between risk scores and severe covd-19 was evaluated using logistic regression to estimate the odds ratio of risk scores per five digits. The area assessment model discrimination under the receiver operating characteristics curve (AUC) was used. For models showing good discrimination, logistic regression of the risk score logarithm is used to evaluate the calibration to estimate intercept and slope (beta coefficient). An intercept near 0 indicates good calibration, while an intercept less than 0 indicates overall overestimated risk, and an intercept greater than 0 indicates overall underestimated risk. A slope approaching 1 indicates good dispersion, where a slope less than 1 indicates over-dispersion and a slope greater than 1 indicates under-dispersion. The best performing test is detailed below. Risk model Three models were developed for assessing the risk of a human subject to develop a severe response to coronavirus infection. In particular, the method may be used to determine the probability that the subject needs hospitalization in the event of infection with coronavirus. The first model is based solely on gender and age (referred to herein as an 'age and gender model'), the second model (referred to herein as a 'full model') contains many clinical and genetic factors, and the third model (referred to herein as an 'extended model') contains additional clinical and genetic factors relative to those in the full model. Age and gender model Table 15 provides inputs for age and gender models and table 16 provides beta coefficients. TABLE 15 age and gender model product input TABLE 16 age and sex model risk factors The log probability was calculated using the following: logarithmic probability (LO) = -1.749562+ Σclinicalbeta coefficient. Age and sex relative risk = e LO 。 Age and gender probability = e LO /(1+e LO )。 If any of the clinical factors are unknown or the subject is not willing to provide relevant details, then the factor is assigned a beta coefficient of 0. Full model Table 17 provides inputs for the full model and tables 18 and 19 provide the beta coefficients. TABLE 17 full model product input TABLE 18 Whole model clinical risk factors TABLE 19 full model SNP risk alleles SNP Risk Factors (SRFs) were determined using the following: (SRF) = Σ (number of risk alleles xSNP beta coefficient). The log probability was calculated using the following: logarithmic probability (LO) = -1.36523+srf+ Σclinical beta coefficient. Age and sex relative risk = e LO 。 Age and gender probability = e LO /(1+e LO )。 If any of the clinical factors are unknown or the subject is not willing to provide relevant details, then the factor is assigned a beta coefficient of 0. Expansion model Table 20 provides the inputs to the expansion model and tables 21 and 22 provide the beta coefficients. TABLE 20 extended model product input TABLE 21 extended model clinical risk factors and SNP risk factors TABLE 22 extended model SNP risk alleles SNP Risk Factors (SRFs) were determined using the following: (SRF) = Σ (number of risk alleles xSNP beta coefficient). The log probability was calculated using the following: log probability (LO) = -1.469939+srf+ Σclinical beta coefficient. Age and sex relative risk = e LO 。 Age and gender probability = e LO /(1+e LO )。 If any of the clinical factors are unknown or the subject is not willing to provide relevant details, then the factor is assigned a beta coefficient of 0. Summary With respect to the differentiation between cases and controls, the AUC of the age and sex model was 0.671 (95% ci= 0.646,0.696), but the whole model with AUC of 0.732 (95% ci= 0.708,0.756) had substantial improvement (χ2=41.23, df=1, p < 0.001). Fig. 4 shows the receiver operating characteristics of the two models. The model was well calibrated without evidence of overall overestimation or underestimation for age and gender models (α= -0.02;95% ci= -0.18,0.13; p=0.7) or full models (α= -0.08;95% ci= -0.21,0.05; p=0.3). There was no evidence of under-or over-dispersion for age and gender models (β=0.96, 95% ci=0.81, 1.10, p=0.6) and for full models (β=0.90, 95% ci=0.80, 1.00, p=0.06). Fig. 5 shows calibration graphs of the two models. The inventors calculated the probability that all british biological sample library participants meeting the qualifying criteria of the study had severe covd-19; fig. 6 shows the distribution. Using the age and gender model, the average probability was 0.32 (sd=0.13), and ranged from a minimum value of 0.15 to a maximum value of 0.56. Using the full model, the average probability was 0.27 (sd=0.16), and ranged from 0.04 to 0.98, which is a much wider range than the age and gender model. The extended model was slightly improved in discrimination in this dataset (table 23). Table 23-test performance. Model AUC 95% confidence interval Age and sex 0.6755 0.65948–0.69160 Full model 0.7512 0.73653–0.76673 Expansion model 0.7524 0.73730–0.76749 Example 7-genetic Risk assessment and clinical Risk assessment in combination-age below 50 years old The algorithm for calculating the risk of having severe Covid-19 has been modified to enable risk calculation for patients aged 18-85 years (previously 50-85 years). More specifically, the look-up table providing age-related risk values has been modified to include three additional values for the following age ranges: 18-29, 30-39, 40-49 (Table 24). For people under 50 years of age, data of risk of hospitalization due to Covid-19 obtained from the U.S. disease control and prevention center (the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) was used to adjust the probability of severe symptoms (https:// www.cdc.gov/chronairus/2019-ncov/Covid-data/covidview/index. The SNPs analyzed and the method used for analysis were the same as used in example 6. Table 24-test performance. The present application claims priority from AU 2020901739 filed on month 5 and 27 of 2020, AU 2020902052 filed on month 6 and 19 of 2020, AU 2020903536 filed on month 9 and 30 of 2020, and AU 2021900392 filed on month 2 and 17 of 2021, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. All publications discussed and/or cited herein are incorporated herein in their entirety. Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention. This is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application. Reference to the literature Address i et al (2000), (nucleic acids Res.) 28, E87. Bennett et al (2005) Pharmacogenomics (Pharmacogenomics) 6:373-382). Brenner et al (2000) & Nature Biotechnology (Nat. Biotechnol.) & lt 18:630-634. Disease control and prevention center (Centres for Disease Control and priority.) (2020) summary of weekly monitoring of covd-19 activity in the united states (covd view: aweekly surveillance summary of u.s.covd-19 activity). Available from the following websites: https:// www.cdc.gov/corenavir/2019-ncov/covid-data/pdf/covidview-08-07-2020. Pdf (8 months 14 day access 2020). Chee et al (1996) Science 274:610-614. COVID-19host genetics program (COVID-19 Host Genetics Initiative.) (2020) European journal of human genetics (Eur J Hum Genet) 28:715-718. Dayem et al (2018) nucleic acids research 46:W109-W113. Devlin and Risch (1995) genomics 29:311-322. Ellinghaus et al (2020) & New England journal of medicine (N.Engl. J.Med.) & doi 10.1056/NEJMoa2020283. Fodor (1997 a) Journal of the American society of laboratory Biotechnology (FASEB Journal) 11:A879. Fodor (1997 b) science 277:393-395. Hartl et al (1981) entrance to genetics of the population (A Primer of Population Genetics), university of Washington (Washington University), style Louis (Saint Louis). Hopper (2015) journal of epidemiology (J. Epidemic) 182:863-867. Katella (2021) university of Yersinia medical school (Yale Medicine), 2021, 5/13 (www.yalemedicine.org/news/covid-19-vacine-combarison). Lockhart (1998) Nature Medicine 4:1235-1236. Lynch and Walsh (1998) genetics and analysis of quantitative traits (Genetics and Analysis of Quantitative Traits), sinauer Co., morganland, mass., sinauer Associates, inc. sundland Mass.) ISBN 0-87893-481-2. Machiela et al (2015) Bioinformatics (Bioinformatics) 31:3555-3557. MacLean et al (2009) natural review: microbiology (Nature Rev. Microbiol.) 7:287-296. Margulies et al (2005) Nature 437:376-380. Mealiffe et al (2010) J.Natl.cancer Inst.102:1618-1627. Melzer et al (2008) genetics of public science library (PLoS Genect.) 4:e1000072. Mitra et al (2003) analytical biochemistry (Analytical Biochemistry) 320:55-65. Morozova and Marra (2008) genomics 92:255. Pairo-Castineira et al (2020) Nature https:// doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-03065-y. Petrill et al (2020) UK journal of medicine (BMJ) 369:m1966.Doi:10.1136/bmj.m1966. Sapolsky et al (1999) genetics analysis: biomolecular engineering (Genet Anal: biomlect engineering) 14:187-192. Shendure et al (2005) science 309:1728-1732. Slatkin and Excofier (1996) genetics (Heredity) 76:377-383. Voelkerding et al (2009) [ Clinical chem.) ] 55:641-658. Williamson et al (2020), nature 584:430436. Wolpin et al (2010) Cancer research (Cancer Res.) 70:1015-1023. Sequence listing <110> Gene technologies Co., ltd <120> method for assessing risk of severe response to coronavirus infection <130> 532228PCT <150> AU 2020901739 <151> 2020-05-27 <150> AU 2020902052 <151> 2020-06-19 <150> AU 2020903536 <151> 2020-09-30 <150> AU 2021900392 <151> 2021-02-17 <160> 18 <170> patent In version 3.5 <210> 1 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 1 acctggtatc agtgaagagg atcag 25 <210> 2 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 2 tcttgataca actgtaagaa gtggt 25 <210> 3 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 3 tatttctttg ttgccctcta tctct 25 <210> 4 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 4 gaaagagatg ggttggcatt attat 25 <210> 5 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 5 taaaattaga actggagggc tgggt 25 <210> 6 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 6 tggcattata aacactcact gaagt 25 <210> 7 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 7 aatgccatct gatgagagaa gtttt 25 <210> 8 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 8 tacagtttta aaaatgggcg tttct 25 <210> 9 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 9 tataataaca cgtggaagtg aaaat 25 <210> 10 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 10 ttgtttgtat gtgtgaaatg attct 25 <210> 11 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 11 aagcaaacta ttcttcagga atcca 25 <210> 12 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 12 atttctgcat ttcactttgt gtggt 25 <210> 13 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 13 gtaaatgctg ctaacagagc tcttt 25 <210> 14 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 14 gaagagagtt tattagcaag gcctc 25 <210> 15 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 15 catttgggaa aagccactga atgga 25 <210> 16 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 16 agattgacta gccgttgaga gtaga 25 <210> 17 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 17 actgactcct gacactcttg aagcg 25 <210> 18 <211> 25 <212> DNA <213> artificial sequence <220> <223> oligonucleotide primer <400> 18 gactcttctc tggcatcttc tcatg 25

### Claims

Claims (56) 1. A method for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising performing a genetic risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the genetic risk assessment involves detecting the presence of at least two polymorphisms associated with a severe response to a coronavirus infection in a biological sample derived from the human subject. 2. The method of claim 1, comprising detecting the presence of at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, at least 20, at least 30, at least 40, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 100, at least 120, at least 140, at least 160, at least 180, at least 200, at least 250, at least 300, or at least 306 polymorphisms associated with severe response to coronavirus infection. 3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the polymorphism is selected from any one of tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 4. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, comprising at least detecting polymorphisms at or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more or all of rs10755709, rs112317747, rs112641600, rs118072448, rs2034831, rs7027911 and rs 71481792. 5. A method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, comprising at least detecting a polymorphism at or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more or all of rs10755709, rs112317747, rs112641600, rs115492982, rs118072448, rs1984162, rs2034831, rs7027911 and rs 71481792. 6. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the polymorphism is selected from the group consisting of a polymorphism in table 1 and/or table 6 or in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 7. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the polymorphism is selected from table 4 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the method comprises or consists of: detecting the presence of at least 60 or each of the polymorphisms provided in table 4 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 9. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the polymorphism is selected from table 2 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 10. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the polymorphism is selected from table 3 and/or table 8 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 11. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the polymorphism is selected from table 3 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 12. The method of claim 11, comprising detecting the presence of each of the polymorphisms provided in table 3 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 13. The method of any one of claims 1 to 12, further comprising Performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject; and combining the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment to obtain a risk of a human subject that is severely responsive to a coronavirus infection. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about one or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, blood type, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma), and whether the human has or has suffered from an autoimmune disease. 15. The method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein combining the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment comprises adding or multiplying the risk assessments. 16. A method for assessing the risk of a human subject to develop a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising detecting in a biological sample derived from the human subject the presence of a polymorphism provided in any one of tables 1-6, 8, 19 or 22 or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the polymorphism is provided in table 19 and/or 22, or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the polymorphism is provided in table 3, table 6, is rs2274122, is rs1868132, is rs11729561, is rs1984162, is rs8105499, or is a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. 19. The method of claim 146, wherein the polymorphism is provided in table 3 as rs2274122, rs1868132, rs11729561, rs1984162, rs8105499, or a polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium therewith. 20. A method of determining the identity of alleles of less than 100,000 polymorphisms in a human subject selected from the group of subjects consisting of humans in need of assessing the risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection to generate a polymorphic profile for said subject, the method comprising (i) Selecting at least two of the polymorphisms provided in any one of tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 or polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof for analysis of allele identity; (ii) Detecting the polymorphism in a biological sample derived from the human subject; and (iii) Generating the polymorphism profile screened by the subject based on the identity of the alleles analyzed in step (ii), wherein less than 100,000 polymorphisms are selected for allele identity analysis in step (i), and the same less than 100,000 polymorphisms are analyzed in step (ii). 21. The method of any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein linkage disequilibrium of the polymorphism of linkage disequilibrium is greater than 0.9. 22. The method of any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein the linkage disequilibrium of the polymorphism of linkage disequilibrium is 1. 23. A method for assessing the risk of a human subject for developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about two, three, four, five or more or all of: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, blood type, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from an autoimmune disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has suffered or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has suffered or has suffered from hypertension, and whether the human has suffered or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). 24. The method of claim 23, comprising obtaining information about age and gender from the subject. 25. The method of claim 23, comprising obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). 26. The method of claim 23, comprising obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, blood type, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma). 27. A method for assessing the risk of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising i) Performing a genetic risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the genetic risk assessment involves detecting rs10755709, rs112317747, in a biological sample derived from the human subject, Polymorphisms at rs112641600, rs118072448, rs2034831, rs7027911 and rs 71481792; ii) performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematologic cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematologic cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma); and iii) Combining the genetic risk assessment with the clinical risk assessment to determine the risk of a human subject to respond severely to a coronavirus infection. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein a) Assigning 0.124239 beta coefficients to each G allele at rs 10755709; b) Assigning 0.2737487 beta coefficients to each C allele at rs 112317747; c) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.2362513 to each T allele at rs 112641600; d) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1995879 to each C allele at rs 118072448; e) Assigning 0.2371955 beta coefficients to each C allele at rs 2034831; f) Assigning 0.1019074 beta coefficients to each a allele at rs 7027911; and is also provided with g) Each T allele at rs71481792 is assigned a β coefficient of-0.1058025. 29. The method of claim 27 or claim 28, wherein the subject is between 50 and 84 years old and a) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.5747727 if the subject is between 70 and 74 years old; b) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.8243711 if the subject is between 75 and 79 years old; c) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.013973 if the subject is between 80 and 84 years old; d) If the subject is male, assigning a β coefficient of 0.2444891; e) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.29311 if the subject is ethnic except caucasian; f) The subject's height (in meters (m)) and weight (in kilograms (kg)) are applied to the following formula: [ (10 x m) 2 )/kg]x-1.602056 to provide a beta coefficient to be assigned; g) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4041337 if the subject was once diagnosed with a cerebrovascular disease; h) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6938494 if the subject was once diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; i) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4297612 if the subject was once diagnosed with diabetes; j) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.003877 if the subject was once diagnosed with a hematological cancer; k) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2922307 if the subject was once diagnosed with hypertension; l) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2558464 if the subject was once diagnosed with non-hematologic cancer; and is also provided with m) if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (other than asthma), assigning a beta coefficient of 1.173753. 30. The method of claim 27 or claim 28, wherein the subject is between 18 and 84 years old and a) -1.3111 if the subject is between 18 and 29 years old; b) -0.8348 if the subject is between 30 and 39 years old; c) -assigning a beta coefficient of-0.4038 if the subject is between 40 and 49 years old; d) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.5747727 if the subject is between 70 and 74 years old; e) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.8243711 if the subject is between 75 and 79 years old; f) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.013973 if the subject is between 80 and 84 years old; g) If the subject is male, assigning a β coefficient of 0.2444891; h) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.29311 if the subject is ethnic except caucasian; i) The subject's height (in meters (m)) and weight (in kilograms (kg)) are applied to the following formula: [ (10 x m) 2 )/kg]x-1.602056 to provide a beta coefficient to be assigned; j) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4041337 if the subject was once diagnosed with a cerebrovascular disease; k) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6938494 if the subject was once diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; l) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4297612 if the subject was once diagnosed with diabetes; m) assigning a beta coefficient of 1.003877 if the subject was once diagnosed with a hematological cancer; n) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2922307 if the subject was once diagnosed with hypertension; o) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2558464 if the subject was once diagnosed with non-hematologic cancer; and is also provided with p) if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (other than asthma), the β -coefficient of 1.173753 is assigned. 31. The method according to any one of claims 27 to 30, wherein in step iii) the genetic risk assessment is combined with the clinical risk assessment using the formula: log probability (LO) = -1.36523+ srf + Σclinical beta coefficient, and wherein SRF is a SNP risk factor determined using the formula: Σ (number of risk alleles x SNP beta coefficient). 32. A method for assessing the risk of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising i) Performing a genetic risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the genetic risk assessment involves detecting rs10755709, rs112317747, in a biological sample derived from the human subject, Polymorphisms at rs112641600, rs115492982, rs118072448, rs1984162, rs2034831, rs7027911 and rs 71481792; ii) performing a clinical risk assessment on the human subject, wherein the clinical risk assessment comprises obtaining information from the subject about: age, sex, race/race, blood type, height, weight, whether the human has or has suffered from a cerebrovascular disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a chronic kidney disease, whether the human has or has suffered from diabetes, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from hypertension, whether the human has or has suffered from an immune function-impaired disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a hematological cancer, whether the human has or has suffered from a liver disease, whether the human has or has suffered from a non-hematological cancer, and whether the human has or has suffered from a respiratory disease (other than asthma); and iii) Combining the genetic risk assessment with the clinical risk assessment to determine the risk of a human subject to respond severely to a coronavirus infection. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein a) Assigning 0.1231766 beta coefficients to each G allele at rs 10755709; b) Assigning 0.2576692 beta coefficients to each C allele at rs 112317747; c) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.2384001 to each T allele at rs 112641600; d) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1965609 to each C allele at rs 118072448; e) Assigning 0.2414792 beta coefficients to each C allele at rs 2034831; f) Assigning 0.0998459 beta coefficients to each a allele at rs 7027911; and is also provided with g) Assigning a beta coefficient of-0.1032044 to each T allele at rs 71481792; h) Assigning 0.4163575 beta coefficients to each a allele at rs 115492982; and is also provided with i) Each a allele at rs1984162 is assigned a beta coefficient of 0.1034362. 34. The method of claim 32 or claim 33, wherein the subject is between 50 and 84 years old and a) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.1677566 if the subject is between 65 and 69 years old; b) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6352682 if the subject is between 70 and 74 years old; c) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.8940548 if the subject is between 75 and 79 years old; d) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.082477 if the subject is between 80 and 84 years old; e) If the subject is male, assigning a β coefficient of 0.2418454; f) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2967777 if the subject is ethnic except caucasian; g) The subject's height (in meters (m)) and weight (in kilograms (kg)) are applied to the following formula: [ (10 x m) 2 )/kg]x-1.560943 to provide a beta coefficient to be assigned; h) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.3950113 if the subject was once diagnosed with a cerebrovascular disease; i) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6650257 if the subject was once diagnosed with chronic kidney disease; j) Assigning a beta coefficient of 0.4126633 if the subject was once diagnosed with diabetes; k) Assigning a beta coefficient of 1.001079 if the subject was once diagnosed with a hematological cancer; l) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2640989 if the subject was once diagnosed with hypertension; m) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2381579 if the subject was once diagnosed with non-hematologic cancer; n) assigning a beta coefficient of 1.148496 if the subject was once diagnosed with a respiratory disease (other than asthma); o) if the subject is ABO blood group, assigning a beta coefficient of-0.229737; p) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.6033541 if the subject was once diagnosed with an immune dysfunction disorder; q) assigning a beta coefficient of 0.2301902 if the subject was once diagnosed with liver disease. 35. The method according to any one of claims 32 to 34, wherein in step iii) the genetic risk assessment is combined with the clinical risk assessment using the formula: log probability (LO) =1.469939+srf + Σclinicalbeta coefficient, and wherein SRF is a SNP risk factor determined using the formula: Σ (number of risk alleles x SNP beta coefficient). 36. The method of any one of claims 27-35, further comprising determining the probability that the subject needs hospitalization in the presence of an infection with coronavirus using the formula: [e LO /(1+e LO )]x 100， to obtain the percentage of likelihood of requiring hospitalization. 37. The method of any one of claims 1-36, wherein the risk assessment produces a score, and the method further comprises comparing the score to a predetermined threshold, wherein if the score is equal to or above the threshold, the subject is assessed as being at risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection. 38. The method of any one of claims 1 to 37, wherein the coronavirus is a beta coronavirus. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein the coronavirus (β -coronavirus) is severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (SARS-CoV), middle east respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (MERS), human coronavirus OC43, or human coronavirus HKU1. 40. The method of claim 38 or claim 39, wherein the coronavirus (β -coronavirus) is severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). 41. A method for determining that a human subject is in need of a routine diagnostic test for a coronavirus infection, the method comprising assessing the risk of the subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection using the method of any one of claims 1 to 40. 42. A method of screening a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising assessing the risk of the subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection using the method of any one of claims 1 to 40, and routinely screening the subject for a coronavirus infection if the subject is assessed as being at risk of a severe response to a coronavirus infection. 43. The method of claim 41 or claim 42, wherein the screening involves analyzing the subject for the virus or symptoms thereof. 44. A method for determining that a human subject is in need of prophylactic anti-coronavirus therapy, the method comprising assessing the risk of the subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection using the method of any one of claims 1 to 40. 45. A method for preventing or reducing the risk of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method comprising assessing the subject for a risk of a severe response to a coronavirus infection using the method of any one of claims 1 to 40, and if the subject is assessed as being at risk of a severe response to a coronavirus infection 1) Administration of anti-coronavirus therapy, and/or 2) Isolating the subject. 46. An anti-coronavirus infection therapy for preventing a severe response to a coronavirus infection in a human subject at risk, wherein the subject is assessed as being at risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection using the method of any one of claims 1 to 40. 47. The method of any one of claims 44 to 46, wherein the therapy is selected from the group consisting of: cannulation to assist respiration, anti-coronavirus vaccine, convalescent plasma, chloroquine (chloroquine), hydroxychloroquine (hydroxychloroquine), favirapivir (Favipiravir), radevivir (Remdesivir), ivermectin (Ivermectin), quercetin (Quercetin), clitellum (kaltra), arbinavir (lopinavir)/ritonavir (ritonavir), arbidol (Arbidol), baretinib (Baricitinib), IL-6 inhibitor CM4620-IE, tolizumab (tocirizumab) and stem cells such as mesenchymal stem cells. 48. A method for stratifying a group of human subjects for clinical trials of a candidate therapy, the method comprising assessing the individual risk of the subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection using the method of any one of claims 1 to 40, and using the results of the assessment to select subjects more likely to respond to the therapy. 49. A kit comprising at least two sets of primers for amplifying two or more nucleic acids, wherein the two or more nucleic acids comprise a polymorphism selected from any one of tables 1 to 6, 8, 19 or 22 or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 50. A genetic array comprising at least two sets of probes for hybridizing to two or more nucleic acids, wherein the two or more nucleic acids comprise a polymorphism selected from any one of tables 1-6, 8, 19, or 22 or a single nucleotide polymorphism in linkage disequilibrium with one or more thereof. 51. A computer-implemented method for assessing a human subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method being operable in a computing system comprising a processor and a memory, the method comprising: receiving genetic risk data of the human subject, wherein the genetic risk data is obtained by the method of any one of claims 1 to 40; processing the data to obtain a risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection; and the risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is exported. 52. A computer-implemented method for assessing a human subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method being operable in a computing system comprising a processor and a memory, the method comprising: receiving clinical risk data and genetic risk data of the human subject, wherein the clinical risk data and the genetic risk data are obtained by the method according to any one of claims 13 to 15 or 27 to 40; Processing the data to combine the clinical risk data with the genetic risk data to obtain a risk of a human subject to react severely to a coronavirus infection; and the risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is exported. 53. A computer-implemented method for assessing a human subject's risk of developing a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the method being operable in a computing system comprising a processor and a memory, the method comprising: receiving at least one clinical variable associated with the human subject, wherein at least one clinical variable is obtained using the method of any one of claims 20 to 26 or 36 to 40; processing the data to obtain a risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection; and the risk of a human subject to respond severely to coronavirus infection is exported. 54. A system for assessing the risk of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the system comprising: system instructions for performing genetic risk assessment on the human subject using the method of any one of claims 1 to 40; and System instructions for obtaining a risk of a human subject to develop a severe response to a coronavirus infection. 55. A system for assessing the risk of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the system comprising: system instructions for clinical and genetic risk assessment of the human subject using the method of any one of claims 13 to 15 or 27 to 40; and system instructions for combining the clinical risk assessment and the genetic risk assessment to obtain a risk of a human subject that is severely responsive to a coronavirus infection. 56. A system for assessing the risk of a human subject for a severe response to a coronavirus infection, the system comprising: system instructions for clinical risk assessment of a human subject using the method of any one of claims 20 to 26 or 36 to 40; and system instructions for obtaining a risk of a human subject to develop a severe response to a coronavirus infection.
