## Patent Reference

- Title: Computer-implemented method for identifying rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN118922887A/en

### Abstract

Abstract Translated from Chinese 本发明所公开的技术涉及可靠地识别引起极端基因表达水平的变体。极端基因表达水平包括表达不足和表达过度。然后，这些变体可以用于训练基于人工智能的模型，从而完成多种预测任务。这些预测任务的一个示例是产生染色质序列的每碱基分辨率。染色质任务的另一个示例是产生由可靠识别的变体引起的基因表达变化。 The technology disclosed in the present invention relates to reliably identifying variants that cause extreme gene expression levels. Extreme gene expression levels include under-expression and over-expression. These variants can then be used to train artificial intelligence-based models to complete a variety of prediction tasks. One example of these prediction tasks is to generate per-base resolution of chromatin sequences. Another example of a chromatin task is to generate changes in gene expression caused by reliably identified variants.

### Description

Description Translated from Chinese 识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体的计算机实现的方法A computer-implemented method for identifying rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels 技术领域Technical Field 本发明所公开的技术涉及人工智能类型计算机和数字数据处理系统以及对应数据处理方法和用于仿真智能的产品(即，基于知识的系统、推断系统和知识采集系统)；并且包括用于不确定性推断的系统(例如，模糊逻辑系统)、自适应系统、机器学习系统和人工神经网络。特别地，本发明所公开的技术涉及在碱基分辨率下基于人工智能的表观遗传学。The technology disclosed in the present invention relates to artificial intelligence type computers and digital data processing systems and corresponding data processing methods and products for simulating intelligence (i.e., knowledge-based systems, inference systems, and knowledge acquisition systems); and includes systems for uncertainty inference (e.g., fuzzy logic systems), adaptive systems, machine learning systems, and artificial neural networks. In particular, the technology disclosed in the present invention relates to epigenetics based on artificial intelligence at base resolution. 相关申请的交叉引用CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS 本申请涉及同时提交的名称为“ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE-BASED DETECTION OFGENE CONSERVATION AND EXPRESSION PRESERVATION AT BASE RESOLUTION”的美国专利申请(代理人案卷号ILLM 1036-1/IP-2045-PRV)，其以引用方式并入，即如同在本文完整示出一样，以用于所有目的。This application is related to concurrently filed U.S. Patent Application entitled “ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE-BASED DETECTION OF GENE CONSERVATION AND EXPRESSION PRESERVATION AT BASE RESOLUTION” (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1036-1/IP-2045-PRV), which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein for all purposes. 文献并入Literature Incorporation 以下文献以引用方式并入，即如同在本文完整示出一样，以用于所有目的：The following documents are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein for all purposes: 2019年9月20日提交的名称为“ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE-BASED EPIGENETICS”的美国专利申请号62/903,700(代理人案卷号ILLM 1025-1/IP-1898-PRV)；U.S. Patent Application No. 62/903,700, entitled “ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE-BASED EPIGENETICS,” filed on September 20, 2019 (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1025-1/IP-1898-PRV); Sundaram,L.等人，Predicting the clinical impact of human mutation withdeep neural networks.Nat.Genet.50,1161-1170(2018)；Sundaram, L. et al., Predicting the clinical impact of human mutation with deep neural networks. Nat. Genet. 50, 1161-1170 (2018); Jaganathan,K.等人，Predicting splicing from primary sequence with deeplearning.Cell 176,535-548(2019)；Jaganathan,K. et al., Predicting splicing from primary sequence with deeplearning. Cell 176,535-548(2019); 2017年10月16日提交的名称为“TRAINING A DEEP PATHOGENICITY CLASSIFIERUSING LARGE-SCALE BENIGN TRAINING DATA”的美国专利申请号62/573,144(代理人案卷号ILLM 1000-1/IP-1611-PRV)；U.S. Patent Application No. 62/573,144, entitled “TRAINING A DEEP PATHOGENICITY CLASSIFIERUSING LARGE-SCALE BENIGN TRAINING DATA,” filed on October 16, 2017 (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1000-1/IP-1611-PRV); 2017年10月16日提交的名称为“PATHOGENICITY CLASSIFIER BASED ON DEEPCONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS(CNNs)”的美国专利申请号62/573,149(代理人案卷号ILLM 1000-2/IP-1612-PRV)；U.S. Patent Application No. 62/573,149, entitled “PATHOGENICITY CLASSIFIER BASED ON DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS (CNNs)”, filed on October 16, 2017 (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1000-2/IP-1612-PRV); 2017年10月16日提交的名称为“DEEP SEMI-SUPERVISED LEARNING THATGENERATES LARGE-SCALE PATHOGENIC TRAINING DATA”的美国专利申请号62/573,153(代理人案卷号ILLM 1000-3/IP-1613-PRV)；U.S. Patent Application No. 62/573,153, entitled “DEEP SEMI-SUPERVISED LEARNING THATGENERATES LARGE-SCALE PATHOGENIC TRAINING DATA,” filed on October 16, 2017 (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1000-3/IP-1613-PRV); 2017年11月7日提交的名称为“PATHOGENICITY CLASSIFICATION OF GENOMICDATA USING DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS(CNNs)”的美国专利申请号62/582,898(代理人案卷号ILLM 1000-4/IP-1618-PRV)；U.S. Patent Application No. 62/582,898, filed on November 7, 2017, entitled “PATHOGENICITY CLASSIFICATION OF GENOMICDATA USING DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS (CNNs)” (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1000-4/IP-1618-PRV); 2018年10月15日提交的名称为“DEEP LEARNING-BASED TECHNIQUES FORTRAINING DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS”的美国专利申请号16/160,903(代理人案卷号ILLM 1000-5/IP-1611-US)；U.S. Patent Application No. 16/160,903, filed on October 15, 2018, entitled “DEEP LEARNING-BASED TECHNIQUES FORTRAINING DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS” (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1000-5/IP-1611-US); 2018年10月15日提交的名称为“DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS FORVARIANT CLASSIFICATION”的美国专利申请号16/160,986(代理人案卷号ILLM 1000-6/IP-1612-US)；U.S. Patent Application No. 16/160,986, filed on October 15, 2018, entitled “DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR VARIANT CLASSIFICATION” (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1000-6/IP-1612-US); 2018年10月15日提交的名称为“SEMI-SUPERVISED LEARNING FOR TRAINING ANENSEMBLE OF DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS”的美国专利申请号16/160,968(代理人案卷号ILLM 1000-7/IP-1613-US)；U.S. Patent Application No. 16/160,968, filed on October 15, 2018, entitled “SEMI-SUPERVISED LEARNING FOR TRAINING ANENSEMBLE OF DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS” (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1000-7/IP-1613-US); 2019年5月8日提交的名称为“DEEP LEARNING-BASED TECHNIQUES FOR PRE-TRAINING DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS”的美国专利申请号16/407,149(代理人案卷号ILLM 1010-1/IP-1734-US)；U.S. Patent Application No. 16/407,149, entitled “DEEP LEARNING-BASED TECHNIQUES FOR PRE-TRAINING DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS,” filed on May 8, 2019 (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1010-1/IP-1734-US); 2021年4月15日提交的名称为“DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS TOPREDICT VARIANT PATHOGENICITY USING THREE-DIMENSIONAL(3D)PROTEIN STRUCTURES”的美国专利申请号17/232,056(代理人案卷号ILLM 1037-2/1P-2051-US)；U.S. Patent Application No. 17/232,056, filed on April 15, 2021, entitled “DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS TOPREDICT VARIANT PATHOGENICITY USING THREE-DIMENSIONAL (3D) PROTEIN STRUCTURES” (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1037-2/1P-2051-US); 2021年4月15日提交的名称为“MULTI-CHANNEL PROTEIN VOXELIZATION TOPREDICT VARIANT PATHOGENICITY USING DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS”的美国专利申请号63/175,495(代理人案卷号ILLM 1047-1/IP-2142-PRV)；U.S. Patent Application No. 63/175,495, entitled “MULTI-CHANNEL PROTEIN VOXELIZATION TOPREDICT VARIANT PATHOGENICITY USING DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS,” filed on April 15, 2021 (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1047-1/IP-2142-PRV); 2021年4月16日提交的名称为“EFFICIENT VOXELIZATION FOR DEEP LEARNING”的美国专利申请号63/175,767(代理人案卷号ILLM 1048-1/IP-2143-PRV)；以及U.S. Patent Application No. 63/175,767, entitled “EFFICIENT VOXELIZATION FOR DEEP LEARNING,” filed on April 16, 2021 (Attorney Docket No. ILLM 1048-1/IP-2143-PRV); and 2021年9月7日提交的名称为“ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE-BASED ANALYSIS OFPROTEIN THREE-DIMENSIONAL(3D)STRUCTURES”的美国专利申请号17/468,411(代理人案卷号ILLM 1037-3/IP-2051A-US)。U.S. patent application Ser. No. 17/468,411 (Agent Docket No. ILLM 1037-3/IP-2051A-US), filed on Sept. 7, 2021, and entitled “ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE-BASED ANALYSIS OF PROTEIN THREE-DIMENSIONAL (3D) STRUCTURES.” 背景技术Background Art 本部分中讨论的主题不应仅因为在本部分中有提及就被认为是现有技术。类似地，在本部分中提及的或与作为背景技术提供的主题相关联的问题不应被认为先前在现有技术中已被认识到。本部分中的主题仅表示不同的方法，这些方法本身也可对应于受权利要求书保护的技术的具体实施。The subject matter discussed in this section should not be considered to be prior art simply because it is mentioned in this section. Similarly, problems mentioned in this section or associated with the subject matter provided as background technology should not be considered to have been previously recognized in the prior art. The subject matter in this section merely represents different approaches, which themselves may also correspond to specific implementations of the technology protected by the claims. 基因组学在广义上也称为功能基因组学，其目的是通过使用基因组规模的测定(诸如基因组测序、转录组谱分析和蛋白质组学)来表征生物体的每种基因组元件的功能。基因组学作为数据驱动的科学出现—其通过从基因组规模数据的探索中发现新特性而不是通过测试预先设想的模型和假设来运作。基因组学的应用包括发现基因型与表型之间的关联、发现用于患者分层的生物标记、预测基因功能，以及绘制有生化活性的基因组区域和残基(诸如转录增强子和单核苷酸多态性(SNP))的图表。Genomics, also referred to in a broad sense as functional genomics, aims to characterize the function of each genomic element of an organism by using genome-scale assays such as genome sequencing, transcriptome profiling, and proteomics. Genomics emerges as a data-driven science—it operates by discovering new properties from the exploration of genome-scale data rather than by testing preconceived models and hypotheses. Applications of genomics include discovering associations between genotype and phenotype, discovering biomarkers for patient stratification, predicting gene function, and mapping biochemically active genomic regions and residues such as transcriptional enhancers and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). 基因组学数据太大太复杂，以至于不能仅通过可视化研究成对相关来挖掘。例如，蛋白质序列可以被分类为同源蛋白质家族，其起源于祖先蛋白质并且共享类似的结构和功能。分析同源蛋白质的多序列比对(MSA)提供了关于功能和结构限制的重要信息。代表氨基酸位点的MSA列的统计标识了在进化期间保存的功能性残基。MSA列之间氨基酸使用的相关性包括关于功能区段和结构接触的重要信息。Genomic data are too large and complex to be mined by visualizing pairwise correlations alone. For example, protein sequences can be classified into families of homologous proteins that originate from an ancestral protein and share similar structures and functions. Analyzing multiple sequence alignments (MSAs) of homologous proteins provides important information about functional and structural constraints. Statistics of MSA columns representing amino acid sites identify functional residues that have been conserved during evolution. The correlation of amino acid usage between MSA columns includes important information about functional segments and structural contacts. 相反，需要分析工具来支持发现未预料到的关系，以导出新的假设和模型，并进行预测。机器学习算法与假设和领域专业知识被硬编码的一些算法不同，被设计成自动检测数据中的模式。因此，机器学习算法适合于数据驱动的科学，尤其适合于基因组学。然而，机器学习算法的性能可能强烈依赖于如何表示数据，也就是说，如何计算每个变量(也称为特征)。例如，为了从荧光显微镜图像中将肿瘤分类为恶性或良性，预处理算法可以检测细胞、识别细胞类型，以及生成针对每种细胞类型的细胞计数列表。Instead, analytical tools are needed to support the discovery of unexpected relationships, to derive new hypotheses and models, and to make predictions. Unlike some algorithms where assumptions and domain expertise are hard-coded, machine learning algorithms are designed to automatically detect patterns in data. As a result, machine learning algorithms are well suited to data-driven science, and are particularly well suited to genomics. However, the performance of machine learning algorithms can strongly depend on how the data is represented, that is, how each variable (also called a feature) is calculated. For example, to classify a tumor as malignant or benign from a fluorescence microscopy image, a preprocessing algorithm may detect cells, identify cell types, and generate a list of cell counts for each cell type. 机器学习模型可以将估计的细胞计数(是手工特征的示例)作为输入特征来对肿瘤进行分类。核心问题是分类性能严重依赖于这些特征的质量和相关性。例如，相关视觉特征(诸如细胞形态、细胞间的距离或器官内的定位)在细胞计数中没有被捕捉到，对数据的这种不完整表示可能降低分类准确度。Machine learning models can use estimated cell counts (an example of handcrafted features) as input features to classify tumors. The core problem is that classification performance heavily depends on the quality and relevance of these features. For example, relevant visual features (such as cell morphology, distance between cells, or localization within an organ) are not captured in cell counts, and this incomplete representation of the data may reduce classification accuracy. 深度学习(机器学习的分支学科)通过将特征的计算嵌入到机器学习模型本身中以产生端对端模型来解决这个问题。该成果已经通过开发深度神经网络来实现，这些深度神经网络是包括连续基本运算的机器学习模型，其中连续基本运算通过取在先运算的结果作为输入来计算越来越复杂的特征。深度神经网络能够通过发现高复杂度的相关特征(诸如上述示例中的细胞形态和细胞的空间组织)来提高预测准确性。通过数据爆炸、算法的进步以及计算能力的显著增加，特别是通过使用图形处理单元(GPU)，已经能够实现深度神经网络的构建和训练。Deep learning, a subdiscipline of machine learning, addresses this problem by embedding the computation of features into the machine learning model itself to produce an end-to-end model. This has been achieved by developing deep neural networks, which are machine learning models that consist of successive elementary operations that compute increasingly complex features by taking the results of previous operations as input. Deep neural networks are able to improve prediction accuracy by discovering relevant features of high complexity, such as cell morphology and the spatial organization of cells in the above example. The construction and training of deep neural networks has been made possible by the explosion of data, advances in algorithms, and a significant increase in computing power, particularly through the use of graphics processing units (GPUs). 监督学习的目标是获得将特征取作输入并返回对所谓目标变量的预测的模型。监督学习问题的一个示例是预测内含子是否被剪接掉RNA上的(目标)给定特征，诸如典型剪接位点序列是否存在、剪接分支点的位置或内含子长度。训练机器学习模型是指学习其参数，这通常涉及使关于训练数据的损失函数最小化，目的是对不可见数据进行准确预测。The goal of supervised learning is to obtain a model that takes features as input and returns a prediction of a so-called target variable. An example of a supervised learning problem is predicting whether an intron is spliced out given a (target) feature on RNA, such as the presence or absence of a typical splice site sequence, the location of a splice branch point, or the length of an intron. Training a machine learning model refers to learning its parameters, which usually involves minimizing a loss function on the training data, with the goal of making accurate predictions on unseen data. 对于计算生物学中的许多监督学习问题，输入数据可以表示为具有多个列或特征的表格，每个列或特征包含潜在可用于做出预测的数值数据或分类数据。一些输入数据自然地表示为表格中的特征(诸如温度或时间)，而其他输入数据需要首先使用被称为特征提取的过程来变换(诸如将脱氧核糖核酸(DNA)序列变换为k-mer计数)，以符合表格表示。对于内含子剪接预测问题，典型剪接位点序列是否存在、剪接分支点的位置和内含子长度可以是以表格格式收集的预处理特征。表格数据是多种多样监督机器学习模型的标准，范围从简单的线性模型(诸如逻辑回归)到更灵活的非线性模型(诸如神经网络)，以及许多其他模型。For many supervised learning problems in computational biology, the input data can be represented as a table with multiple columns or features, each containing numerical or categorical data that can potentially be used to make predictions. Some input data are naturally represented as features in a table (such as temperature or time), while other input data need to be first transformed (such as transforming deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequences into k-mer counts) using a process called feature extraction to fit a tabular representation. For the intron splicing prediction problem, the presence or absence of typical splice site sequences, the location of splicing branch points, and the length of introns can be preprocessed features collected in a tabular format. Tabular data is standard for a wide variety of supervised machine learning models, ranging from simple linear models (such as logistic regression) to more flexible nonlinear models (such as neural networks), as well as many other models. 逻辑回归是二元分类器，即，预测二元目标变量的监督学习模型。具体地，逻辑回归通过使用S型函数(一类激活函数)计算映射到[0,1]区间的输入特征的加权和，来预测正类的概率。逻辑回归或使用不同激活函数的其他线性分类器的参数是加权和中的权重。当用输入特征的加权和不能很好地区分类别(例如，被剪接掉或未被剪接掉的内含子的类别)时，线性分类器失效。为了提高预测性能，可以通过以新的方式(例如，通过取幂或成对乘积)变换或组合现有特征来手动添加新的输入特征。Logistic regression is a binary classifier, i.e., a supervised learning model that predicts a binary target variable. Specifically, logistic regression predicts the probability of the positive class by computing the weighted sum of input features mapped to the interval [0,1] using a sigmoid function (a first-class activation function). The parameters of logistic regression or other linear classifiers using different activation functions are the weights in the weighted sum. Linear classifiers fail when the weighted sum of the input features cannot distinguish the classes well (e.g., the classes of spliced or non-spliced introns). To improve the prediction performance, new input features can be added manually by transforming or combining existing features in new ways (e.g., by exponentiation or pairwise products). 神经网络使用隐藏层来自动学习这些非线性特征变换。每个隐藏层可以被认为是多个线性模型，其输出由非线性激活函数变换，该非线性激活函数诸如S型函数或更流行的整流线性单位函数(ReLU)。这些层一起将输入特征组成相关的复模式，这有助于区分两个类的任务。Neural networks use hidden layers to automatically learn these nonlinear feature transformations. Each hidden layer can be thought of as multiple linear models whose outputs are transformed by a nonlinear activation function such as the sigmoid function or the more popular rectified linear unit function (ReLU). Together, these layers organize the input features into related complex patterns that help with the task of distinguishing between two classes. 深度神经网络使用许多隐藏层，其中一层在每个神经元接收到来自前一层的所有神经元的输入时，被称为是全连接层。神经网络通常使用随机梯度下降来训练，其中随机梯度下降是适合于在非常大的数据集上训练模型的一种算法。使用现代深度学习框架实现神经网络使得能够使用不同的架构和数据集进行快速原型设计。全连接神经网络可用于许多基因组学应用，包括从序列特征(诸如存在剪接因子的结合基序或序列保守性)预测针对给定序列剪接的外显子的百分比；将潜在致病遗传变体按重要性排序；以及使用诸如染色质标记、基因表达和进化保守性的特征来预测给定基因组区域中的顺式调控元件。Deep neural networks use many hidden layers, where each neuron receives input from all neurons in the previous layer, and is called a fully connected layer. Neural networks are typically trained using stochastic gradient descent, an algorithm suitable for training models on very large datasets. Implementing neural networks using modern deep learning frameworks enables rapid prototyping with different architectures and datasets. Fully connected neural networks can be used for many genomics applications, including predicting the percentage of exons spliced for a given sequence from sequence features (such as the presence of binding motifs for splicing factors or sequence conservation); ranking potentially pathogenic genetic variants by importance; and predicting cis-regulatory elements in a given genomic region using features such as chromatin marks, gene expression, and evolutionary conservation. 为了进行有效的预测，必须考虑空间数据和纵向数据的局部依赖性。例如，打乱DNA序列或图像的像素会严重破坏信息模式。这些局部依赖性设置除表格数据之外的空间或纵向数据，对于表格数据，特征的排序是任意的。考虑将基因组区域分类为由特定转录因子结合或不由特定转录因子结合的问题，其中结合区域被定义为染色质免疫沉淀、随后是测序(ChIP-seq)数据中的高置信度结合事件。转录因子通过识别序列基序与DNA结合。基于序列导出特征的全连接层，诸如序列中的k-mer示例的数量或位置权重矩阵(PWM)匹配，可以用于该任务。由于k-mer或PWM示例频率对于在序列内将基序移位具有稳健性，所以此类模型可以很好地推广到具有位于不同位置的相同基序的序列。然而，它们却不能识别转录因子结合依赖于具有明确定义间隔的多个基序的组合的模式。此外，可能的k-mer数量随着k-mer长度呈指数增加，这对存储和过拟合两方面提出了挑战。For effective prediction, local dependencies of both spatial and longitudinal data must be accounted for. For example, shuffling the pixels of a DNA sequence or an image can severely disrupt information patterns. These local dependencies set spatial or longitudinal data apart from tabular data, for which the ordering of features is arbitrary. Consider the problem of classifying genomic regions as bound or not bound by a specific transcription factor, where bound regions are defined as high-confidence binding events in chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) data. Transcription factors bind to DNA by recognizing sequence motifs. Fully connected layers based on sequence-derived features, such as the number of k-mer examples in the sequence or position weight matrix (PWM) matching, can be used for this task. Since k-mer or PWM example frequencies are robust to shifting motifs within a sequence, such models generalize well to sequences with the same motif at different positions. However, they fail to recognize patterns where transcription factor binding depends on the combination of multiple motifs with well-defined spacing. Furthermore, the number of possible k-mers increases exponentially with the k-mer length, which poses challenges in terms of both storage and overfitting. 卷积层是全连接层的一种特殊形式，其中相同的全连接层被局部地(例如在6bp窗口中)应用于所有序列位置。该方法也可以被视为使用多个PWM来扫描序列，例如，针对转录因子GATA1和TALI。通过在不同位置使用相同的模型参数，参数总数急剧减少，并且网络能够检测在训练期间未看到的位置处的基序。每个卷积层通过在每个位置处产生标量值来用几个滤波器对序列进行扫描，该标量值量化滤波器与序列之间的匹配度。如在全连接神经网络中那样，在每一层处应用非线性激活函数(通常为ReLU)。接下来，应用池化操作，其将激活聚集在整个位置轴上的连续仓中，通常取每个通道的最大激活或平均激活。池化减小了有效序列长度，并使信号变得粗糙。随后的卷积层组成前一层的输出，并且能够检测GATA1基序和TAL1基序是否存在于某个距离范围内。最后，这些卷积层的输出可以用作全连接神经网络的输入，以执行最终的预测任务。因此，不同类型的神经网络层(例如，全连接层和卷积层)可以在单个神经网络内组合。A convolutional layer is a special form of a fully connected layer in which the same fully connected layer is applied locally (e.g., in a 6bp window) to all sequence positions. This approach can also be viewed as using multiple PWMs to scan a sequence, for example, for the transcription factors GATA1 and TALI. By using the same model parameters at different positions, the total number of parameters is dramatically reduced, and the network is able to detect motifs at positions not seen during training. Each convolutional layer scans the sequence with several filters by producing a scalar value at each position that quantifies the fit between the filter and the sequence. As in a fully connected neural network, a nonlinear activation function (usually ReLU) is applied at each layer. Next, a pooling operation is applied that aggregates activations into continuous bins across the position axis, typically taking the maximum activation or average activation for each channel. Pooling reduces the effective sequence length and makes the signal coarser. Subsequent convolutional layers compose the output of the previous layer and are able to detect whether the GATA1 motif and the TAL1 motif are present within a certain distance range. Finally, the outputs of these convolutional layers can be used as input to a fully connected neural network to perform the final prediction task. Therefore, different types of neural network layers (e.g., fully connected layers and convolutional layers) can be combined within a single neural network. 卷积神经网络(CNN)仅在DNA序列基础上就能够预测各种分子表型。应用包括对转录因子结合位点进行分类，以及预测分子表型，诸如染色质特征、DNA接触图、DNA甲基化、基因表达、翻译效率、RBP结合与微小RNA(miRNA)目标。卷积神经网络除了从序列预测分子表型之外，还可以应用于传统上由手工生物信息学流水线解决的更多技术任务。例如，卷积神经网络可以预测向导RNA的特异性、对ChIP-seq进行去噪、提高Hi-C数据分辨率、从DNA序列预测来源实验室，以及检出遗传变体。卷积神经网络也已经用于对基因组中的长程依赖性进行建模。尽管相互作用的调控元件在未折叠的线性DNA序列上可能远离彼此定位，但这些元件在实际的3D染色质构象中通常彼此邻近。因此，虽然由线性DNA序列对分子表型建模是对染色质的粗略近似，但却可以通过允许长范围依赖性和允许模型隐含地学习3D组织的各方面(诸如启动子-增强子成环)来改进。这通过使用扩张的卷积来实现，其具有高达32kb的感受野。扩张的卷积还允许使用10kb的感受野从序列预测剪接位点，从而使得能够跨越与典型的人内含子一样长的距离来整合基因序列(参见Jaganathan,K.等人，Predictingsplicing from primary sequence with deep learning.Cell 176,535-548(2019))。Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are able to predict a variety of molecular phenotypes based on DNA sequences alone. Applications include classification of transcription factor binding sites, and prediction of molecular phenotypes such as chromatin features, DNA contact maps, DNA methylation, gene expression, translation efficiency, RBP binding and microRNA (miRNA) targets. In addition to predicting molecular phenotypes from sequences, convolutional neural networks can also be applied to more technical tasks that are traditionally solved by manual bioinformatics pipelines. For example, convolutional neural networks can predict the specificity of guide RNAs, denoise ChIP-seq, improve the resolution of Hi-C data, predict the laboratory of origin from DNA sequences, and detect genetic variants. Convolutional neural networks have also been used to model long-range dependencies in the genome. Although interacting regulatory elements may be located far from each other on unfolded linear DNA sequences, these elements are usually adjacent to each other in the actual 3D chromatin conformation. Therefore, although modeling molecular phenotypes by linear DNA sequences is a crude approximation of chromatin, it can be improved by allowing long-range dependencies and allowing the model to implicitly learn aspects of 3D organization (such as promoter-enhancer looping). This is achieved by using dilated convolutions with a receptive field of up to 32 kb. Dilated convolutions also allow prediction of splice sites from sequences using a receptive field of 10 kb, enabling integration of gene sequences across distances as long as typical human introns (see Jaganathan, K. et al., Predicting splicing from primary sequence with deep learning. Cell 176, 535-548 (2019)). 不同类型的神经网络可以由它们的参数共享方案来表征。例如，全连接层不具有参数共享，而卷积层通过在其输入的每个位置处应用相同的滤波器来施加平移不变性。递归神经网络(RNN)是用于处理实现不同参数共享方案的顺序数据(诸如DNA序列或时间序列)的对卷积神经网络的替代方案。递归神经网络对每个序列元素应用相同的操作。该操作将前一个序列元素和新输入作为存储器的输入。该操作将存储器更新并任选地发出输出，该输出被传递到后续层或被直接用作模型预测结果。由于在每个序列元素处应用相同的模型，递归神经网络对于所处理的序列中的位置索引保持不变。例如，递归神经网络可以检测DNA序列中的开放阅读框，而不管在序列中的位置是怎样的。该任务需要识别特定系列的输入，诸如起始密码子之后是框内终止密码子。Different types of neural networks can be characterized by their parameter sharing schemes. For example, fully connected layers do not have parameter sharing, while convolutional layers impose translation invariance by applying the same filter at each position of their input. Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are alternatives to convolutional neural networks for processing sequential data (such as DNA sequences or time series) that implement different parameter sharing schemes. Recurrent neural networks apply the same operation to each sequence element. The operation takes the previous sequence element and the new input as input to the memory. The operation updates the memory and optionally emits an output, which is passed to subsequent layers or is directly used as a model prediction result. Since the same model is applied at each sequence element, the recurrent neural network remains unchanged for the position index in the sequence being processed. For example, a recurrent neural network can detect an open reading frame in a DNA sequence, regardless of the position in the sequence. This task requires identifying a specific series of inputs, such as an in-frame stop codon followed by a start codon. 递归神经网络优于卷积神经网络的主要优势在于，在理论上，它们能够经由存储器通过无限长的序列来携带信息。此外，递归神经网络可以自然地处理长度变化很大的序列，诸如mRNA序列。然而，在序列建模任务(例如音频合成和机器翻译)方面，与各种技巧(诸如扩张的卷积)组合的卷积神经网络可以达到与递归神经网络相当、甚至更好的性能。递归神经网络可以聚集卷积神经网络的输出，用于预测单细胞DNA甲基化状态、RBP结合、转录因子结合和DNA可及性。此外，由于递归神经网络应用顺序操作，所以不能轻易并行化，因此计算速度比卷积神经网络慢得多。The main advantage of recurrent neural networks over convolutional neural networks is that, in theory, they can carry information through sequences of infinite length via memory. In addition, recurrent neural networks can naturally process sequences with large length variations, such as mRNA sequences. However, in terms of sequence modeling tasks (such as audio synthesis and machine translation), convolutional neural networks combined with various techniques (such as dilated convolutions) can achieve performance comparable to or even better than recurrent neural networks. Recurrent neural networks can aggregate the outputs of convolutional neural networks for predicting single-cell DNA methylation status, RBP binding, transcription factor binding, and DNA accessibility. In addition, since recurrent neural networks apply sequential operations, they cannot be easily parallelized, so the calculation speed is much slower than that of convolutional neural networks. 虽然每个人都有独特的遗传密码，但是人类遗传密码的大部分是所有人共有的。在一些情况下，人类遗传密码可以包括异常值，称为遗传变体，其在相对小群的人群的个体之中可能是共有的。例如，特定的人蛋白质可以包含特定的氨基酸序列，而该蛋白质的变体可以在其他方面相同的特定序列中有一个氨基酸不同。Although each person has a unique genetic code, most of the human genetic code is shared by all people. In some cases, the human genetic code may include outliers, called genetic variants, which may be shared among individuals in a relatively small group of the population. For example, a particular human protein may contain a particular amino acid sequence, while a variant of that protein may differ by one amino acid in an otherwise identical particular sequence. 遗传变体可以具有致病性，从而导致疾病。尽管大多数这样的遗传变体已经通过自然选择从基因组中耗尽，但是识别哪些遗传变体可能具有致病性的能力可以帮助研究人员集中于这些遗传变体以获得对相应疾病及其诊断、治疗或治愈的理解。对数百万个人类遗传变体的临床解释仍不清楚。一些最常见的致病性变体是改变蛋白质氨基酸的单核苷酸错义突变。然而，并非所有的错义突变都具有致病性。Genetic variants can be pathogenic, thus causing disease. Although most such genetic variants have been depleted from the genome by natural selection, the ability to identify which genetic variants are likely to be pathogenic can help researchers focus on these genetic variants to gain an understanding of the corresponding diseases and their diagnosis, treatment, or cure. The clinical interpretation of the millions of human genetic variants remains unclear. Some of the most common pathogenic variants are single nucleotide missense mutations that change the amino acid of a protein. However, not all missense mutations are pathogenic. 可以直接从生物序列预测分子表型的模型可以用作计算机扰动工具来探测遗传变异与表型变异之间的关联，并且已经成为用于数量性状基因座识别和变体优先排序的新方法。这些方法非常重要，因为通过复杂表型的全基因组关联分析识别的大多数变体是非编码的，这使得估计它们对表型的作用和贡献具有挑战性。此外，连锁不平衡导致变体的块被共遗传，这在查明单个因果变体方面产生了困难。因此，可以用作评估此类变体的影响的探询工具的基于序列的深度学习模型提供了一种有前途的方法来发现复杂表型的潜在驱动因素。一个示例包括从两种变体在转录因子结合、染色质可及性或基因表达预测方面之间的差异间接预测非编码单核苷酸变体和短插入或缺失(indel)的影响。另一个示例包括根据序列或根据遗传变体对剪接的定量影响，来预测新剪接位点的产生。Models that can predict molecular phenotypes directly from biological sequences can be used as computer perturbation tools to detect associations between genetic and phenotypic variation, and have become new methods for quantitative trait loci identification and variant prioritization. These methods are very important because most variants identified by genome-wide association analyses of complex phenotypes are non-coding, which makes it challenging to estimate their effects and contributions to the phenotype. In addition, linkage disequilibrium causes blocks of variants to be co-inherited, which creates difficulties in pinpointing single causal variants. Therefore, sequence-based deep learning models that can be used as interrogation tools to assess the effects of such variants provide a promising approach to discover potential drivers of complex phenotypes. One example includes indirectly predicting the effects of non-coding single nucleotide variants and short insertions or deletions (indels) from differences between two variants in transcription factor binding, chromatin accessibility, or gene expression predictions. Another example includes predicting the generation of new splice sites based on sequence or based on the quantitative effects of genetic variants on splicing. 应用用于预测变体效应的端对端深度学习方法，从蛋白质序列和序列保守性数据预测错义变体的致病性(参见Sundaram,L.等人，Predicting the clinical impact ofhuman mutation with deep neural networks.Nat.Genet.50,1161-1170(2018)，本文中称为“PrimateAI”)。PrimateAI使用在已知具有致病性的变体上训练的深度神经网络，其中使用跨物种信息进行数据增强。特别地，PrimateAI使用野生型蛋白质和突变型蛋白质的序列来比较差异，并且使用受过训练的深度神经网络来决定突变的致病性。这种利用蛋白质序列进行致病性预测的方法是有前途的，因为其可以避免圆度问题和对先前知识的过度拟合。然而，与有效训练深度神经网络的数据数量充分相比，ClinVar中可用的临床数据数量相对较少。为了克服这种数据匮乏，PrimateAI使用常见的人类变体和灵长类动物变体作为良性数据，而将基于三核苷酸背景的模拟变体用作未标记数据。An end-to-end deep learning method for predicting variant effects is applied to predict the pathogenicity of missense variants from protein sequence and sequence conservation data (see Sundaram, L. et al., Predicting the clinical impact of human mutation with deep neural networks. Nat. Genet. 50, 1161-1170 (2018), referred to herein as 'PrimateAI'). PrimateAI uses a deep neural network trained on variants known to be pathogenic, where cross-species information is used for data enhancement. In particular, PrimateAI uses the sequences of wild-type proteins and mutant proteins to compare differences, and uses trained deep neural networks to determine the pathogenicity of mutations. This method of using protein sequences for pathogenicity prediction is promising because it can avoid circularity problems and overfitting of prior knowledge. However, compared with the number of data for effectively training deep neural networks, the number of clinical data available in ClinVar is relatively small. In order to overcome this lack of data, PrimateAI uses common human variants and primate variants as benign data, and simulated variants based on trinucleotide backgrounds are used as unlabeled data. 当直接根据序列比对进行训练时，PrimateAI的性能优于现有方法。PrimateAI直接从由约120,000个人类样品组成的训练数据中学习重要的蛋白质结构域、保守氨基酸位置和序列依赖性。PrimateAI在区分候选发育障碍基因中的良性和致病性从头突变方面，以及在复制ClinVar中的先验知识方面，明显胜过其他变体致病性预测工具的性能。这些结果表明PrimateAI是变体分类工具的重要进步，可以减少临床报告对先验知识的依赖。PrimateAI outperforms existing methods when trained directly on sequence alignments. PrimateAI learns important protein domains, conserved amino acid positions, and sequence dependencies directly from training data consisting of approximately 120,000 human samples. PrimateAI significantly outperforms other variant pathogenicity prediction tools in distinguishing between benign and pathogenic de novo mutations in candidate developmental disorder genes and in replicating prior knowledge in ClinVar. These results indicate that PrimateAI is an important advancement in variant classification tools that can reduce the reliance of clinical reports on prior knowledge. 蛋白质生物学的核心是理解结构元件如何产生观察到的功能。蛋白质结构数据过剩使得能够开发计算方法来系统地导出支配结构-功能关系的规则。然而，这些方法的性能在很大程度上取决于对蛋白质结构表示的选择。At the core of protein biology is understanding how structural elements give rise to observed functions. The glut of protein structural data has enabled the development of computational methods to systematically derive the rules governing structure-function relationships. However, the performance of these methods depends critically on the choice of protein structural representation. 蛋白质位点是蛋白质结构内的微环境，通过其结构或功能作用来区分。位点可以由三维(3D)位置和该位置周围的其中存在结构或功能的局部邻域来定义。合理蛋白质工程的核心是理解氨基酸的结构排列如何在蛋白质位点内产生功能特征。确定蛋白质内各个氨基酸的结构和功能作用提供了有助于工程化和改变蛋白质功能的信息。识别功能或结构上重要的氨基酸允许集中的工程努力，诸如用于改变靶蛋白功能特性的定点诱变。替代性地，这种知识可以有助于避免会破坏期望功能的工程设计。Protein sites are microenvironments within protein structures that are distinguished by their structural or functional roles. Sites can be defined by a three-dimensional (3D) position and a local neighborhood around the position where structure or function exists. The core of rational protein engineering is to understand how the structural arrangement of amino acids produces functional characteristics within protein sites. Determining the structural and functional roles of individual amino acids within a protein provides information that helps to engineer and alter protein function. Identifying functionally or structurally important amino acids allows for focused engineering efforts, such as site-directed mutagenesis for altering the functional properties of a target protein. Alternatively, this knowledge can help to avoid engineering designs that would destroy the desired function. 由于已经确定结构比序列保守得多，所以蛋白质结构数据增加提供了使用数据驱动的方法系统地研究支配结构-功能关系的潜在模式的机会。任何蛋白质计算分析的基本方面都是如何表示蛋白质结构信息。机器学习方法的性能通常更多地取决于对数据表示的选择，而不是所采用的机器学习算法。良好的表示高效地捕获最关键的信息，而差的表示产生没有底层图案的噪声分布。Since it has been established that structure is much more conserved than sequence, the increase in protein structural data provides an opportunity to systematically study the underlying patterns that govern structure-function relationships using data-driven methods. A fundamental aspect of any computational analysis of proteins is how protein structural information is represented. The performance of machine learning methods often depends more on the choice of data representation than on the machine learning algorithm employed. A good representation efficiently captures the most critical information, while a poor representation produces a noisy distribution without underlying patterns. 蛋白质结构过剩和最近深度学习算法的成功提供了开发用于自动提取蛋白质结构的任务特异性表示的工具的机会。The plethora of protein structures and the recent success of deep learning algorithms provide opportunities to develop tools for automatically extracting task-specific representations of protein structures. 基因组学研究的计算分析受到与感兴趣遗传因素无关的混杂变异的挑战。识别引起极端基因表达水平(高或低)的变体对于诊断遗传疾病的致病性至关重要。然而，有许多混杂因素可能会干扰对致病性变体的识别。通过检查可能与特定病理相关联的罕见变体来分离变体可以简化该问题。另外，去除由混杂因素引入的噪声可以提高信噪比。Computational analysis of genomic studies is challenged by confounding variants that are unrelated to the genetic factor of interest. Identifying variants that cause extreme gene expression levels (high or low) is critical for diagnosing the pathogenicity of genetic diseases. However, there are many confounding factors that may interfere with the identification of pathogenic variants. Isolating variants by examining rare variants that may be associated with a specific pathology can simplify this problem. Additionally, removing the noise introduced by confounding factors can improve the signal-to-noise ratio. 因此，出现了将人工智能应用于表观遗传学的机会，以大大增加恢复可变基因座与个体基因表达水平之间的遗传相关性的灵敏度。Therefore, an opportunity arises to apply artificial intelligence to epigenetics to greatly increase the sensitivity of recovering genetic correlations between variable loci and individual gene expression levels. 附图说明BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 本专利或专利申请文件包含至少一幅彩色附图。具有彩色附图的本专利或本专利申请公布的副本将在提出请求并支付必要费用后由专利局提供。彩色附图也可通过补充内容选项卡成对地获得。This patent or patent application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing(s) will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee. Color drawings are also available in pairs via the Supplemental Content tab. 在附图中，在所有不同视图中，类似的参考符号通常是指类似的部件。另外，附图未必按比例绘制，而是重点说明所公开的技术的原理。在以下描述中，参考以下附图描述了本发明所公开的技术的各种实施方式，其中：In the drawings, similar reference symbols generally refer to similar parts throughout the different views. In addition, the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale, but rather focus on illustrating the principles of the disclosed technology. In the following description, various embodiments of the technology disclosed in the present invention are described with reference to the following drawings, in which: 图1示出处理流水线的一种具体实施，其识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体。FIG1 illustrates one specific implementation of a processing pipeline that identifies rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels. 图2展示处理系统的一种具体实施，其生成引起极端基因表达水平的异常值变体的因果关系评分。FIG. 2 shows one specific implementation of a processing system that generates causality scores for outlier variants that cause extreme gene expression levels. 图3描绘拟合因果关系模型的一种具体实施，其确定罕见变体与极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素。FIG3 depicts one specific implementation of fitting a causal relationship model to determine the causal relationship between rare variants and extreme gene expression levels while controlling for multiple confounding factors. 图4示出由本发明所公开的技术针对罕见变体样本生成的因果关系评分的示例。FIG. 4 shows an example of a causality score generated by the disclosed technology for a rare variant sample. 图5示出，通过使用拟合因果关系模型连续校正多种混杂因素，表现结果(用跨个体和基因的z评分来衡量)逐渐改善。Figure 5 shows that performance results (measured by z scores across individuals and genes) gradually improved by successively correcting for multiple confounders using the fitted causal model. 图6比较对于来自拟合因果关系模型的给定p值，被识别为引起基因表达不足和基因表达过度的真实罕见变体和改组(或随机选择)变体的计数。Figure 6 compares the counts of true rare variants and shuffled (or randomly selected) variants identified as causing gene under-expression and gene over-expression for a given p-value from a fitted causal model. 图7示出对于来自拟合因果关系模型的给定p值，就基因表达不足和基因表达过度而言，比较真实罕见变体和改组变体的因果关系的比值比。Figure 7 shows the odds ratios comparing causality of true rare variants and shuffled variants for both gene underexpression and gene overexpression for a given p-value from the fitted causality model. 图8示出本发明所公开的染色质模型的第一示例架构。FIG. 8 shows a first example architecture of the chromatin model disclosed in the present invention. 图9示出本发明所公开的染色质模型的第二示例架构。FIG. 9 shows a second example architecture of the chromatin model disclosed in the present invention. 图10示出本发明所公开的染色质模型的第三示例架构。FIG. 10 shows a third example architecture of the chromatin model disclosed in the present invention. 图11示出本发明所公开的染色质模型的第四示例架构。FIG. 11 shows a fourth example architecture of the chromatin model disclosed in the present invention. 图12示出本发明所公开的染色质模型的第五示例架构。FIG. 12 shows a fifth example architecture of the chromatin model disclosed in the present invention. 图13展示访问序列数据库并生成输入碱基序列的输入生成逻辑部件。FIG. 13 shows the input generation logic components that access the sequence database and generate the input base sequence. 图14描绘通过染色质模型进行碱基分辨率进化保守性预测的一种具体实施。FIG. 14 depicts a specific implementation of base-resolution evolutionary conservation prediction using a chromatin model. 图15示出对应于靶碱基序列的输出序列的一个示例。FIG. 15 shows an example of an output sequence corresponding to a target base sequence. 图16示出本发明所公开的基因表达模型的一种具体实施。FIG. 16 shows a specific implementation of the gene expression model disclosed in the present invention. 图17示出参考序列和另选序列的一个示例。FIG. 17 shows an example of a reference sequence and an alternative sequence. 图18展示本发明所公开的变体分类逻辑部件的一种具体实施。FIG. 18 shows a specific implementation of the variant classification logic component disclosed in the present invention. 图19展示本发明所公开的致病性预测逻辑部件的一种具体实施。FIG. 19 shows a specific implementation of the pathogenicity prediction logic component disclosed in the present invention. 图20是可以用于实现本发明所公开技术的各种方面的示例计算机系统。FIG. 20 is an example computer system that can be used to implement various aspects of the disclosed technology. 具体实施方式DETAILED DESCRIPTION 呈现以下讨论以使得本领域的任何技术人员能够实现和使用所公开的技术，并且在特定应用及其要求的背景中提供以下讨论。对所公开的具体实施的各种修改对于本领域的技术人员而言将是显而易见的，并且在不脱离所公开的技术的实质和范围的情况下，本文所定义的一般原理可应用于其他具体实施和应用。因此，所公开的技术并非旨在限于所示的具体实施，而是要符合与本文所公开的原理和特征一致的最广范围。The following discussion is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the disclosed technology, and is provided in the context of a specific application and its requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed implementations will be apparent to those skilled in the art, and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other implementations and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed technology. Therefore, the disclosed technology is not intended to be limited to the specific implementations shown, but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. 当结合附图阅读时，将更好地理解各种具体实施的详细描述。就附图例示各种具体实施的功能块的图而言，功能块不一定指示硬件电路之间的划分。因此，例如，功能块(例如，模块、处理器或存储器)中的一者或多者可以在单件硬件(例如，通用信号处理器或随机存取存储器块、硬盘等)或多件硬件中实现。类似地，程序可以是独立程序，可作为子例程并入操作系统中，可以是已安装软件包中的功能等。应当理解，各种具体实施不限于附图中所示的布置和工具。The detailed description of various implementations will be better understood when read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. To the extent that the accompanying drawings illustrate diagrams of functional blocks of various implementations, the functional blocks do not necessarily indicate a division between hardware circuits. Thus, for example, one or more of the functional blocks (e.g., modules, processors, or memories) may be implemented in a single piece of hardware (e.g., a general purpose signal processor or random access memory block, a hard disk, etc.) or in multiple pieces of hardware. Similarly, a program may be a stand-alone program, may be incorporated into an operating system as a subroutine, may be a function in an installed software package, etc. It should be understood that the various implementations are not limited to the arrangements and tools shown in the accompanying drawings. 附图中被指定为模块的处理引擎和数据库可在硬件或软件中实现，并且不需要按如附图所示那样精确地划分成相同的块。这些模块中的一些模块还可在不同的处理器、计算机或服务器上实现，或者分布在多个不同的处理器、计算机或服务器之间。此外，应当理解，在不影响所实现的功能的情况下，可组合、同步操作或以与图中所示不同的序列操作模块中的一些。附图中的模块也可被认为是方法中的流程图步骤。模块也不一定需要将其所有代码连续地放置在存储器中；代码的一些部分可与代码的其他部分分离，来自其他模块或其他功能的代码设置在两者之间。The processing engines and databases designated as modules in the accompanying drawings may be implemented in hardware or software and need not be divided into identical blocks exactly as shown in the accompanying drawings. Some of these modules may also be implemented on different processors, computers, or servers, or distributed between multiple different processors, computers, or servers. In addition, it should be understood that some of the modules may be combined, operated synchronously, or operated in a sequence different from that shown in the drawings without affecting the functions implemented. The modules in the accompanying drawings may also be considered as flow chart steps in the method. A module also does not necessarily need to have all of its code placed continuously in memory; some parts of the code may be separated from other parts of the code, with code from other modules or other functions arranged between the two. 本发明所公开技术的示例应用Example applications of the disclosed technology 基因表达是将DNA中的指令转化成功能性产物(诸如RNA分子或蛋白质)的过程。本发明所公开的技术识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体，其中极端基因表达水平既包括表达不足，也包括表达过度。这些罕见变体通过与具有极端基因表达水平的邻近基因相关联来识别。在一种具体实施中，本发明所公开的技术识别在某个基因的启动子区域中具有特定变体并且与不具有该特定变体的个体相比该基因还具有明显不同的基因表达的那些个体。基于对此类个体的识别，本发明所公开的技术将特定变体分类为基因表达改变变体。本发明所公开的技术还使用人工智能来训练多个模型，其中，使用所识别的罕见变体作为训练数据，并且使用这些罕见变体的表达不足和表达过度表型作为地面真值标签。Gene expression is the process of converting instructions in DNA into functional products (such as RNA molecules or proteins). The technology disclosed in the present invention identifies rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels, wherein extreme gene expression levels include both underexpression and overexpression. These rare variants are identified by being associated with neighboring genes with extreme gene expression levels. In a specific implementation, the technology disclosed in the present invention identifies those individuals in which there is a specific variant in the promoter region of a gene and the gene also has significantly different gene expression compared to individuals without the specific variant. Based on the identification of such individuals, the technology disclosed in the present invention classifies specific variants as gene expression change variants. The technology disclosed in the present invention also uses artificial intelligence to train multiple models, wherein the rare variants identified are used as training data, and the underexpression and overexpression phenotypes of these rare variants are used as ground truth labels. 在本申请中，术语“染色质序列”、“染色质输入序列”和“输出序列”在本申请中通篇使用。染色质是结合有蛋白质和/或RNA的DNA。通过使用术语“染色质序列”，我们指的是染色质的DNA序列。一段染色质中的DNA序列可能受到蛋白质和RNA的保护，然后像DNA足迹法一样进行测序。染色质序列也可以被化学修饰。例如，DNA序列通常具有与序列中的核苷酸附接的甲基基团，因此是甲基化的。In this application, the terms 'chromatin sequence', 'chromatin input sequence' and 'output sequence' are used throughout this application. Chromatin is DNA bound to proteins and/or RNA. By using the term 'chromatin sequence', we refer to the DNA sequence of chromatin. A DNA sequence in a section of chromatin may be protected by proteins and RNA and then sequenced like DNA footprinting. Chromatin sequences can also be chemically modified. For example, DNA sequences typically have methyl groups attached to the nucleotides in the sequence and are therefore methylated. 如染色质模型124的各种具体实施的大量比较所强调的，许多具体实施在架构组件中共享重叠。染色质模型124的每个元件具有多种具体实施，这些具体实施能够以多种配置组合。可以为本发明所公开的技术实施的多种排列不仅提供较宽范围的实用性、性能效率，而且还提供较宽范围的性能准确性。在本发明所公开技术的许多具体实施中应用于输入碱基序列的数据变换，从核酸序列的角度和染色质结构的角度生成多种附加的序列格式，是一种创新策略，其引起输出大量输出信号，对大范围的基因组学、蛋白质分析和致病性研究问题具有广泛的适用性。先前版本的PrimateAI已经采用多种工具，以高性能对变体致病性进行分类。该染色质模型124在该方法中引入另一种工具，以及在研究影响生物复制和转录过程的表观遗传信号时引入额外的维度。As highlighted by numerous comparisons of various implementations of the chromatin model 124, many implementations share overlap in architectural components. Each element of the chromatin model 124 has multiple implementations that can be combined in multiple configurations. The multiple arrangements that can be implemented for the technology disclosed in the present invention provide not only a wide range of practicality, performance efficiency, but also a wide range of performance accuracy. The data transformation applied to the input base sequence in many implementations of the technology disclosed in the present invention, generating a variety of additional sequence formats from the perspective of nucleic acid sequence and the perspective of chromatin structure, is an innovative strategy that causes the output of a large number of output signals and has wide applicability to a wide range of genomics, protein analysis and pathogenicity research problems. Previous versions of PrimateAI have used multiple tools to classify variant pathogenicity with high performance. The chromatin model 124 introduces another tool in this approach, as well as an additional dimension when studying epigenetic signals that affect biological replication and transcription processes. 尽管染色质结构的附加有利位置对于利用PrimateAI所提供的多种工具研究基因表达有明显的效用，但是，本发明所公开技术提供的真正影响在于将表观遗传信号添加到整个基因表达预测逻辑部件中。染色质的DNA序列和组蛋白蛋白质组分都可以经历大量化学修饰。直接结合到染色质组分并催化染色质组分化学修饰的酶可以改变染色质结构，染色质结构的变化也可以改变染色质相互作用酶接近其靶配体的能力以及染色质相互作用酶的功能。染色质的结构和改变结构的酶直接影响基因转录和表达的可接近性。DNA变体可以引起染色质结构的变化，其随后可以改变表观遗传效应，诸如转录因子结合，以及对基因表达和基因抑制的适当调控所必需的酶促反应。Although the additional vantage point of chromatin structure has obvious utility for studying gene expression using the various tools provided by PrimateAI, the real impact provided by the technology disclosed in the present invention is to add epigenetic signals to the entire gene expression prediction logic component. Both the DNA sequence and the histone protein components of chromatin can undergo a large number of chemical modifications. Enzymes that directly bind to chromatin components and catalyze chemical modifications of chromatin components can change the chromatin structure, and changes in chromatin structure can also change the ability of chromatin-interacting enzymes to approach their target ligands and the function of chromatin-interacting enzymes. The structure of chromatin and the enzymes that change the structure directly affect the accessibility of gene transcription and expression. DNA variants can cause changes in chromatin structure, which can subsequently change epigenetic effects, such as transcription factor binding, and enzymatic reactions necessary for proper regulation of gene expression and gene repression. 相反，对染色质的表观遗传效应(诸如甲基化和蛋白质结合事件)可以影响突变率，从而潜在地引入可能沉默或致病的变体。如在本发明所公开技术的许多具体实施中所证明的，对基因的进化限制和该基因变体的致病性的研究在通过表观遗传特征增强时，明显更全面更准确。总之，本发明所公开的技术具有几种排列，其服从于一系列训练和学习策略以生成几种输出，这些输出可以应用于预测靶遗传序列的基因表达和基因致病性。本发明所公开的染色质聚焦策略可用于研究遗传性疾病和环境暴露相关疾病、开发药物，以及研究表观遗传学在核酸序列转录和翻译成蛋白质过程中的影响。In contrast, epigenetic effects on chromatin (such as methylation and protein binding events) can affect mutation rates, potentially introducing variants that may be silent or pathogenic. As demonstrated in many specific implementations of the technology disclosed in the present invention, studies of evolutionary constraints on genes and the pathogenicity of gene variants are significantly more comprehensive and accurate when enhanced by epigenetic features. In summary, the technology disclosed in the present invention has several arrangements that are subject to a series of training and learning strategies to generate several outputs that can be applied to predict gene expression and gene pathogenicity of target genetic sequences. The chromatin focusing strategy disclosed in the present invention can be used to study genetic diseases and environmental exposure-related diseases, develop drugs, and study the effects of epigenetics in the transcription and translation of nucleic acid sequences into proteins. 罕见变体识别Rare variant identification 处理流水线Processing pipeline 图1示出处理流水线100的一种具体实施，其识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体。在动作110处，获取一组个体的基因表达水平。在一种具体实施中，从基因型-组织表达(GTEx)获得基因表达水平。Figure 1 shows a specific implementation of a processing pipeline 100 that identifies rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels. At act 110, gene expression levels for a group of individuals are obtained. In a specific implementation, the gene expression levels are obtained from genotype-tissue expression (GTEx). 在动作120处，例如，通过计算平均值和多个相对于平均值的标准偏差，将基因表达水平归一化。At act 120, the gene expression levels are normalized, for example, by calculating a mean and a plurality of standard deviations relative to the mean. 在动作130处，从这组个体识别具有极端基因表达水平的那些异常值个体。从归一化基因表达水平122的尾分位数124确定极端基因表达水平。尾分位数124的示例包括正负两个方向上的一个或多个相对于平均值的标准偏差。例如，异常值个体的基因表达水平相对于平均值的z评分至少为|1.2|。At action 130, outlier individuals with extreme gene expression levels are identified from the group of individuals. The extreme gene expression levels are determined from the tail quantiles 124 of the normalized gene expression levels 122. Examples of tail quantiles 124 include one or more standard deviations relative to the mean in both positive and negative directions. For example, the z-score of the gene expression level of the outlier individual relative to the mean is at least |1.2|. 在动作140处，从异常值个体的基因序列中选择罕见变体。罕见变体基于等位基因频率截止值来选择。例如，罕见变体具有小于0.1％的次要等位基因频率(MAF)。At action 140, rare variants are selected from the gene sequence of the outlier individual. The rare variants are selected based on an allele frequency cutoff. For example, the rare variant has a minor allele frequency (MAF) of less than 0.1%. 在动作150处，对因果关系模型进行拟合，以确定异常值个体中的罕见变体与极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型通过根据由特定罕见变体引起的变体驱动的基因表达水平预测特定染色体中特定基因的特定基因表达水平来确定因果关系。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型测量变体驱动的基因表达水平作为变体效应协变量的贡献。At action 150, a causal relationship model is fitted to determine the causal relationship between the rare variants and the extreme gene expression levels in the outlier individuals while controlling for multiple confounding factors. In one specific implementation, the fitted causal relationship model determines the causal relationship by predicting the specific gene expression level of a specific gene in a specific chromosome based on the variant-driven gene expression level caused by the specific rare variant. In one specific implementation, the fitted causal relationship model measures the contribution of the variant-driven gene expression level as a variant effect covariate. 因果关系模型的示例包括逻辑回归模型、线性回归模型、协方差分析(ANCOVA)模型和/或协方差多变量分析(MANCOVA)模型。多种混杂因素的示例包括远端反式表达数量性状基因座(eQTL)效应、局部顺式eQTL效应、基于基因型的主成分(gPC)、表达式残差(PEER)效应、环境效应、群体结构和祖先效应，以及性别效应、批次效应、基因分型平台效应和文库构建方案效应。PEER代表“表达式残差的概率估计”。这是使用因子分析方法从基因表达谱推断隐蔽决定簇及其效应的贝叶斯方法的集合。Examples of causal models include logistic regression models, linear regression models, analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) models, and/or multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) models. Examples of multiple confounding factors include distal trans-expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) effects, local cis-eQTL effects, genotype-based principal components (gPCs), expression residual (PEER) effects, environmental effects, population structure and ancestral effects, as well as sex effects, batch effects, genotyping platform effects, and library construction scheme effects. PEER stands for 'probability estimation of expression residuals.' This is a collection of Bayesian methods that use factor analysis methods to infer hidden determinants and their effects from gene expression profiles. 在动作160处，基于所确定的因果关系生成罕见变体的因果关系评分。特定罕见变体的特定因果关系评分指示该特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有该特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起极端基因表达水平的可能性。在一种具体实施中，因果关系评分是概率值(p值)。在一种具体实施中，p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。At action 160, a causality score for a rare variant is generated based on the determined causality. The specific causality score for a specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes an extreme gene expression level in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. In a specific implementation, the causality score is a probability value (p-value). In a specific implementation, the p-value is determined by the Pearson correlation coefficient. 处理系统Processing system 图2展示处理系统200的一种具体实施，其生成引起极端基因表达水平的异常值变体的因果关系评分。数据存储器202包括基因表达数据，其例如来源于GTEx、RNA-Seq或全基因组测序(WGS)。归一化器204将基因表达数据归一化，并将归一化的基因表达数据存储在数据存储器206中。归一化的基因表达数据可以通过平均值以及一个或多个相对于平均值的标准偏差来衡量。在一种具体实施中，从归一化基因表达数据的尾分位数确定极端基因表达水平。Fig. 2 shows a specific implementation of processing system 200, which generates causal relationship scores of outlier variants causing extreme gene expression levels.Data storage 202 includes gene expression data, which, for example, derives from GTEx, RNA-Seq or whole genome sequencing (WGS).Normalizer 204 normalizes the gene expression data, and stores the normalized gene expression data in data storage 206.Normalized gene expression data can be measured by mean value and one or more standard deviations relative to mean value.In a specific implementation, extreme gene expression levels are determined from the tail quantile of the normalized gene expression data. 对因果关系模型212进行拟合，以确定变体216与极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素226。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型212通过根据由特定变体引起的变体驱动的基因表达水平(其在本文中被称为由变体214引起的基因表达)预测特定染色体中特定基因的特定基因表达水平来确定因果关系。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型212测量变体驱动的基因表达水平214(由变体216引起)作为变体效应协变量(稍后在图3中展示为308)的贡献。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型212测量混杂因素驱动的基因表达水平224(由混杂因素226引起)作为多种混杂因素效应协变量(稍后在图3中展示为304、306和310)的贡献。The causal relationship model 212 is fitted to determine the causal relationship between variant 216 and extreme gene expression levels while controlling multiple confounding factors 226. In a specific implementation, the fitting causal relationship model 212 determines the causal relationship by predicting the specific gene expression level of a specific gene in a specific chromosome according to the gene expression level driven by the variant caused by the specific variant (which is referred to herein as the gene expression caused by variant 214). In a specific implementation, the fitting causal relationship model 212 measures the contribution of the gene expression level 214 driven by the variant (caused by variant 216) as a variant effect covariate (later shown as 308 in FIG. 3). In a specific implementation, the fitting causal relationship model 212 measures the contribution of the gene expression level 224 driven by the confounding factor (caused by the confounding factor 226) as a plurality of confounding factor effect covariates (later shown as 304, 306 and 310 in FIG. 3). 因果关系模型212的示例包括逻辑回归模型、线性回归模型、协方差分析(ANCOVA)模型和/或协方差多变量分析(MANCOVA)模型。混杂因素226的示例包括远端反式表达数量性状基因座(eQTL)效应、局部顺式eQTL效应、基于基因型的主成分(gPC)、表达式残差(PEER)效应、环境效应、群体结构和祖先效应，以及性别效应、批次效应、基因分型平台效应和文库构建方案效应。Examples of causal relationship models 212 include logistic regression models, linear regression models, analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) models, and/or multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) models. Examples of confounding factors 226 include distal trans-expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) effects, local cis-eQTL effects, genotype-based principal components (gPCs), expression residual (PEER) effects, environmental effects, population structure and ancestral effects, as well as sex effects, batch effects, genotyping platform effects, and library construction protocol effects. 因果关系模型212生成由变体216引起的混杂因素校正的归一化基因表达232作为输出，其中混杂因素226的效应被回归掉。The causal model 212 generates as output the confounder-corrected normalized gene expression 232 caused by the variant 216 , in which the effect of the confounder 226 is regressed out. 罕见变体识别器234从变体216之中识别出罕见变体236。罕见变体216可以基于等位基因频率截止值来选择。例如，罕见变体236可以具有小于0.1％的次要等位基因频率(MAF)。Rare variant identifier 234 identifies rare variant 236 from among variants 216. Rare variant 216 can be selected based on an allele frequency cutoff value. For example, rare variant 236 can have a minor allele frequency (MAF) of less than 0.1%. 因果关系评分生成器242基于混杂因素校正的归一化基因表达232生成罕见变体236的因果关系评分246。特定罕见变体的特定因果关系评分指示该特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有该特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起极端基因表达水平的可能性。在一种具体实施中，因果关系评分246是概率值(p值)。在一种具体实施中，p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。The causality score generator 242 generates a causality score 246 for a rare variant 236 based on the normalized gene expression 232 corrected for confounding factors. The specific causality score of a specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes an extreme gene expression level in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. In a specific implementation, the causality score 246 is a probability value (p-value). In a specific implementation, the p-value is determined by the Pearson correlation coefficient. 罕见变体排名器256基于因果关系评分246来对罕见变体236进行排名，然后将经排名的罕见变体存储在数据存储器252中。Rare variant ranker 256 ranks rare variants 236 based on causality scores 246 and then stores the ranked rare variants in data store 252 . 因果关系模型Causal Model 图3描绘拟合因果关系模型300的一种具体实施，其确定罕见变体与极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素。拟合因果关系模型300具有名称为“G”(基因表达)的因变量302，以及分别具有以下名称的多个自变量304、306、308和310：FIG3 depicts a specific implementation of a fitted causal relationship model 300 that determines a causal relationship between rare variants and extreme gene expression levels while controlling for multiple confounding factors. The fitted causal relationship model 300 has a dependent variable 302 named 'G' (gene expression), and a plurality of independent variables 304, 306, 308, and 310 having the following names, respectively: ·“G1”(由远端反式eQTL效应引起的基因表达)，“G1” (gene expression caused by distal trans-eQTL effects), ·“G2”(由局部顺式eQTL效应引起的基因表达)，“G2” (gene expression caused by local cis-eQTL effects), ·“G3”(由罕见变体引起的基因表达)，以及'G3' (gene expression caused by rare variants), and ·“G4”(由其他效应引起的基因表达，如基于基因型的主成分(gPC)320、表达式残差(PEER)效应330、环境效应340、群体结构和祖先效应350，以及性别效应、批次效应、基因分型平台效应和文库构建方案效应360)。“G4” (gene expression caused by other effects, such as genotype-based principal components (gPC) 320, expression residual (PEER) effects 330, environmental effects 340, population structure and ancestry effects 350, as well as sex effects, batch effects, genotyping platform effects, and library construction protocol effects 360). 本发明所公开的技术从G中去除G1、G2和G4，即，G-G1-G2-G4＝G3，以消除(或校正)混杂效应并准确地确定由罕见变体引起的基因表达。The technology disclosed in the present invention removes G1, G2 and G4 from G, that is, G-G1-G2-G4=G3, to eliminate (or correct) the confounding effect and accurately determine the gene expression caused by rare variants. 拟合因果关系模型300通过根据由其他染色体中的其他基因引起的反式基因表达水平(G1)304预测特定基因表达水平(G)302来控制远端反式eQTL效应。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型300测量反式基因表达水平作为反式效应协变量的贡献。The fitted causal model 300 controls for distal trans eQTL effects by predicting specific gene expression levels (G) 302 from trans gene expression levels caused by other genes in other chromosomes (G1) 304. In one implementation, the fitted causal model 300 measures the contribution of trans gene expression levels as a trans effect covariate. 拟合因果关系模型300通过根据由特定基因邻域中存在多个常见变体引起的顺式基因表达水平(G2)306预测特定基因表达水平(G)302来控制局部顺式eQTL效应。在一些具体实施中，邻域由特定基因中相对于转录起始位点(TSS)的偏移量来限定。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型300测量顺式基因表达水平作为顺式效应协变量的贡献。The fitted causal model 300 controls for local cis-eQTL effects by predicting a specific gene expression level (G) 302 based on the cis-gene expression levels (G2) 306 caused by the presence of multiple common variants in the neighborhood of the specific gene. In some implementations, the neighborhood is defined by an offset relative to the transcription start site (TSS) in the specific gene. In one implementation, the fitted causal model 300 measures the contribution of the cis-gene expression level as a cis-effect covariate. 拟合因果关系模型300通过根据由gPC引起的gPC基因表达水平(G4)310预测特定基因表达水平(G)302来控制群体结构和祖先效应。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型300测量gPC基因表达水平(G4)310作为群体结构和祖先效应协变量的贡献。The fitted causal model 300 controls for population structure and ancestral effects by predicting specific gene expression levels (G) 302 based on gPC gene expression levels (G4) 310 caused by gPC. In one implementation, the fitted causal model 300 measures the contribution of gPC gene expression levels (G4) 310 as a covariate for population structure and ancestral effects. 拟合因果关系模型300通过根据由PEER引起的PEER基因表达水平(G4)310预测特定基因表达水平(G)302来控制PEER效应。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型300测量PEER基因表达水平(G4)310作为PEER效应协变量的贡献。The fitted causal model 300 controls for the PEER effect by predicting a specific gene expression level (G) 302 based on the PEER gene expression level (G4) 310 caused by PEER. In one implementation, the fitted causal model 300 measures the contribution of the PEER gene expression level (G4) 310 as a covariate of the PEER effect. 拟合因果关系模型300通过根据由环境效应引起的环境基因表达水平(G4)310预测特定基因表达水平(G)302来控制环境效应。在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型300测量环境基因表达水平(G4)310作为环境效应协变量的贡献。The fitted causal model 300 controls for environmental effects by predicting specific gene expression levels (G) 302 based on environmental gene expression levels (G4) 310 caused by the environmental effects. In one implementation, the fitted causal model 300 measures the contribution of environmental gene expression levels (G4) 310 as a covariate of environmental effects. 在一些具体实施中，极端基因表达水平包括基因表达过度和基因表达不足。In some implementations, extreme gene expression levels include gene overexpression and gene underexpression. 表达过度Overexpression 在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型300确定罕见变体与基因表达过度之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素。在一些具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型300生成罕见变体的所谓“过度因果关系评分”。特定罕见变体的特定过度因果关系评分指示该特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有该特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起基因表达过度的可能性。In one implementation, the fitted causal relationship model 300 determines the causal relationship between rare variants and gene overexpression while controlling for multiple confounding factors. In some implementations, the fitted causal relationship model 300 generates a so-called 'excess causality score' for rare variants. The specific excess causality score of a particular rare variant indicates the likelihood that the particular rare variant causes gene overexpression in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the particular rare variant. 在一种具体实施中，过度因果关系评分是过度概率值(过度p值)。在一种具体实施中，过度p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。在一些具体实施中，过度p值指定罕见变体在相对于基因集合中的其他基因原本具有较低基因表达的基因中增加基因表达的在统计上无混杂的可能性。In one implementation, the excess causality score is an excess probability value (excess p-value). In one implementation, the excess p-value is determined by the Pearson correlation coefficient. In some implementations, the excess p-value specifies the statistically unconfounded likelihood that a rare variant increases gene expression in a gene that otherwise has lower gene expression relative to other genes in the gene set. 表达不足Insufficient expression 在一种具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型300确定罕见变体与基因表达不足之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素。在一些具体实施中，拟合因果关系模型300生成罕见变体的所谓“不足因果关系评分”。特定罕见变体的特定不足因果关系评分指示该特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有该特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起基因表达不足的可能性。In one implementation, the fitted causal relationship model 300 determines the causal relationship between rare variants and insufficient gene expression while controlling for multiple confounding factors. In some implementations, the fitted causal relationship model 300 generates a so-called 'insufficient causality score' for rare variants. The specific insufficient causality score for a particular rare variant indicates the likelihood that the particular rare variant causes insufficient gene expression in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the particular rare variant. 在一种具体实施中，不足因果关系评分是不足概率值(不足p值)。在一种具体实施中，不足p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。在一些具体实施中，不足p值指定罕见变体在相对于基因集合中的其他基因原本具有较高基因表达的基因中降低基因表达的在统计上无混杂的可能性。In one implementation, the insufficient causality score is an insufficient probability value (insufficient p-value). In one implementation, the insufficient p-value is determined by the Pearson correlation coefficient. In some implementations, the insufficient p-value specifies a statistically unconfounded likelihood that a rare variant reduces gene expression in a gene that otherwise has higher gene expression relative to other genes in the gene set. 在一些具体实施中，罕见变体是非编码变体。非编码变体可以包括5'非翻译区(UTR)变体、3'UTR变体、增强子变体和启动子变体。In some implementations, the rare variants are non-coding variants. Non-coding variants may include 5' untranslated region (UTR) variants, 3'UTR variants, enhancer variants, and promoter variants. 在一些具体实施中，基因表达水平被进一步分层为多种组织的组织特异性基因表达水平。在一种具体实施中，使用分位数归一化来将每个组织中的每个基因的基因表达水平归一化。在一些具体实施中，针对每个组织单独拟合因果关系模型。在一些具体实施中，使用分层来拟合因果关系模型。In some implementations, gene expression levels are further stratified into tissue-specific gene expression levels of multiple tissues. In one implementation, quantile normalization is used to normalize the gene expression levels of each gene in each tissue. In some implementations, a causal relationship model is fitted separately for each tissue. In some implementations, stratification is used to fit the causal relationship model. 排名Ranking 在一些具体实施中，基于因果关系评分生成罕见变体的排名。在一种具体实施中，基于过度因果关系评分生成罕见变体的排名。在一种具体实施中，基于不足因果关系评分生成罕见变体的排名。In some implementations, a ranking of rare variants is generated based on a causality score. In one implementation, a ranking of rare variants is generated based on an excessive causality score. In one implementation, a ranking of rare variants is generated based on an insufficient causality score. 在一些具体实施中，罕见变体是单现变体。在一种具体实施中，单现变体出现在来自这些异常值个体的唯一一个异常值个体中。In some implementations, the rare variant is a single-occurring variant. In one implementation, the single-occurring variant occurs in only one outlier individual from the outlier individuals. 因果关系评分Causality score 图4示出由本发明所公开的技术针对罕见变体样本生成的因果关系评分400的示例。图4示出“染色体”列402，其标识罕见变体所在的染色体。图4还示出“位置”列404，其标识罕见变体的位置。图4还示出“REF”列406，其标识对应于罕见变体的参考核苷酸(或碱基)。图4还示出“ALT”列408，其标识代表罕见变体的另选核苷酸(或碱基)。FIG. 4 shows an example of a causality score 400 generated by the disclosed technology for a rare variant sample. FIG. 4 shows a 'chromosome' column 402, which identifies the chromosome where the rare variant is located. FIG. 4 also shows a 'position' column 404, which identifies the position of the rare variant. FIG. 4 also shows a 'REF' column 406, which identifies the reference nucleotide (or base) corresponding to the rare variant. FIG. 4 also shows an 'ALT' column 408, which identifies an alternative nucleotide (or base) representing the rare variant. 图4还示出“p_不足”列410，其标识罕见变体的不足因果关系评分。p_不足值与不足因果关系评分负相关，即，p_不足值越高，罕见变体引起基因表达不足的可能性越小；p_不足值越低，罕见变体引起基因表达不足的可能性越大。Figure 4 also shows a 'p_deficient' column 410, which identifies the deficient causality score of the rare variant. The p_deficient value is negatively correlated with the deficient causality score, that is, the higher the p_deficient value, the less likely the rare variant is to cause deficient gene expression; the lower the p_deficient value, the more likely the rare variant is to cause deficient gene expression. 图4还示出“p_过度”列412，其标识罕见变体的过度因果关系评分。p_过度值与过度因果关系评分负相关，即，p_过度值越高，罕见变体引起基因表达过度的可能性越小；p_过度值越低，罕见变体引起基因表达过度的可能性越大。Fig. 4 also shows a 'p_over' column 412, which identifies the over-causality score of rare variants. The p_over value is negatively correlated with the over-causality score, that is, the higher the p_over value, the less likely the rare variant is to cause over-expression of the gene; the lower the p_over value, the greater the likelihood that the rare variant is to cause over-expression of the gene. 作为非显而易见性和创造性的客观指标的性能结果Performance results as objective indicators of non-obviousness and inventive step 比较和检测样本分布与参考分布之间的差异，或者相对于参考分布的样本异常值可以包括使用参数和非参数统计检验，诸如使用(单尾或双尾)t检验、Mann-Whitney RankSum检验和其他检验，包括使用z评分，诸如基于中值绝对偏差的z评分(例如，诸如由Stumm等人，2014，Prenat Diagn 34:185所使用)。将一种分布与参考分布(或相对于参考分布的异常值)进行比较时，在某些具体实施中，该比较被区分(并且/或者被识别为明显不同)的前提是：平均值、中值或个别样本与参考分布的分离大于约1.5、1.6、1.7、1.8、1.9、1.95、1.97、2.0个标准分布(“SD”)，或者大于约2.0个标准分布；以及/或者个别样本与参考分布以大于约1.5、1.6、1.7、1.8、1.9、2.0、2.5、2.7、2.8、2.9、3.0、3.1、3.2、3.3、3.4、3.5、3.75、4.0、4.5、5.0或大于约5.0的z评分与参考分布分离。Comparing and detecting differences between a sample distribution and a reference distribution, or sample outliers relative to a reference distribution, can include the use of parametric and nonparametric statistical tests, such as (one-tailed or two-tailed) t-tests, Mann-Whitney RankSum tests, and other tests, including the use of z-scores, such as z-scores based on median absolute deviations (e.g., such as used by Stumm et al., 2014, Prenat Diagn 34:185). When comparing a distribution to a reference distribution (or an outlier relative to a reference distribution), in certain embodiments, the comparison is distinguished (and/or identified as significantly different) if: the mean, median, or individual samples are separated from the reference distribution by more than about 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 1.95, 1.97, 2.0 standard distributions ('SD'), or more than about 2.0 standard distributions; and/or the individual samples are separated from the reference distribution by a z-score of greater than about 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.75, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, or more than about 5.0. 在某些具体实施中，关于一组样本计算参数(诸如平均值、中值、标准偏差、中值绝对偏差或z评分)。在某些此类具体实施中，这样计算的参数用于从那些检测/分析的测试样本中识别异常值。在特定的具体实施中，在不知道任何异常值的身份的情况下，从所有测试样本计算这样的参数(例如，“掩蔽”分析)。在其他特定的具体实施中，这种参数是从一组已知是(非偏远)标准的参考样本或假定是(或不太可能是)此类标准的测试样本计算的。In some implementations, parameters (such as mean, median, standard deviation, median absolute deviation, or z-score) are calculated with respect to a set of samples. In some such implementations, such calculated parameters are used to identify outliers from those test samples detected/analyzed. In particular implementations, such parameters are calculated from all test samples without knowing the identity of any outliers (e.g., 'masked' analysis). In other particular implementations, such parameters are calculated from a set of reference samples known to be (non-outlier) standards or test samples assumed to be (or unlikely to be) such standards. 在某些具体实施中，在数据集的背景中，可以计算z评分(或基于参数的重复分布模式的等价统计量)以识别偏远的数据点(例如，表示极端基因表达水平(不足或过度))，从数据集中除去表示这种数据点的数据，随后对该数据集进行z评分分析，以试图识别另外的异常值。当两个或更多个样本可能偏离单个z评分分析时，并且/或者在后续测试可用于确认假阳性并因此避免假阴性可能比假阳性的(初始)识别更重要的情况下，这种迭代z评分分析有时可能特别有用。In some implementations, in the context of a data set, a z-score (or an equivalent statistic based on a repeated distribution pattern of a parameter) can be calculated to identify outlier data points (e.g., representing extreme gene expression levels (under- or over-expression)), data representing such data points removed from the data set, and then the data set subjected to a z-score analysis in an attempt to identify additional outliers. Such an iterative z-score analysis can sometimes be particularly useful when two or more samples may deviate from a single z-score analysis, and/or in situations where subsequent testing may be used to confirm false positives and thus avoiding false negatives may be more important than the (initial) identification of false positives. 图5示出，通过使用拟合因果关系模型300连续校正多种混杂因素，表现结果500(用跨个体和基因的z评分来衡量)逐渐改善。特别地，确定不足z评分以测量罕见变体与基因表达不足之间的相关性，确定过度z评分以测量罕见变体与基因表达过度之间的相关性。5 shows that the performance results 500 (measured by z scores across individuals and genes) gradually improve by successively correcting for multiple confounding factors using the fitted causal model 300. In particular, an under-z score is determined to measure the correlation between rare variants and under-expression of a gene, and an over-z score is determined to measure the correlation between rare variants and over-expression of a gene. 在502处，不足z评分是1.7，过度z评分是1.2。在该阶段，没有一个混杂因素得到校正。At 502, the under-z score is 1.7 and the over-z score is 1.2. At this stage, none of the confounders were corrected. 在512处，不足z评分增加到2.25，过度z评分增加到2。在该阶段，PEER因子得到校正。At 512, the under-z score increases to 2.25 and the over-z score increases to 2. At this stage, the PEER factor is corrected. 在522处，不足z评分增加到2.6，过度z评分增加到2.2。在该阶段，30个gPC得到校正。At 522, the under-z score increased to 2.6 and the over-z score increased to 2.2. At this stage, 30 gPCs were corrected. 在532处，不足z评分增加到3，过度z评分降低到2。在该阶段，局部顺式eQTL效应得到校正。At 532, the deficiency z-score increases to 3 and the excess z-score decreases to 2. At this stage, the local cis-eQTL effects are corrected. 在542处，不足z评分增加到3.5，过度z评分增加到3。在该阶段，远端反式eQTL效应得到校正。At 542, the deficiency z score increased to 3.5 and the excess z score increased to 3. At this stage, the distal trans-eQTL effect was corrected. 图6比较对于来自拟合因果关系模型300的给定p值604，被识别为引起基因表达不足612和基因表达过度616的真实罕见变体622和改组(或随机选择)变体632的计数611、613。如图6所示，真实罕见变体622的基于计数的相关性始终高于改组变体632。在图6中，x轴是真实罕见变体622和改组变体632相对于转录起始位点(TSS)的距离662、666。在图6中，y轴是真实罕见变体622和改组变体632的计数611、613。FIG. 6 compares the counts 611, 613 of true rare variants 622 and shuffled (or randomly selected) variants 632 identified as causing gene underexpression 612 and gene overexpression 616 for a given p-value 604 from the fitted causal model 300. As shown in FIG. 6, the count-based correlation of true rare variants 622 is always higher than that of shuffled variants 632. In FIG. 6, the x-axis is the distance 662, 666 of the true rare variants 622 and shuffled variants 632 relative to the transcription start site (TSS). In FIG. 6, the y-axis is the counts 611, 613 of the true rare variants 622 and shuffled variants 632. 图7示出对于来自拟合因果关系模型300的给定p值604，就基因表达不足612和基因表达过度616而言，比较真实罕见变体622和改组变体632的因果关系的比值比711、713。如图7所示，不同TSS距离662、666的一致高比值比711、713证明真实罕见变体622的强因果关系。7 shows the odds ratios 711, 713 comparing the causality of the true rare variant 622 and the shuffled variant 632 in terms of gene underexpression 612 and gene overexpression 616 for a given p-value 604 from the fitted causal model 300. As shown in FIG7 , the consistently high odds ratios 711, 713 for different TSS distances 662, 666 demonstrate a strong causal relationship for the true rare variant 622. 碱基分辨率进化保守性预测Base-resolution evolutionary conservation prediction 染色质模型Chromatin Model 图8示出本发明所公开的染色质模型802的第一示例架构800。图9示出本发明所公开的染色质模型802的第二示例架构900。图10示出本发明所公开的染色质模型802的第三示例架构1000。图11示出本发明所公开的染色质模型802的第四示例架构1100。图12示出本发明所公开的染色质模型802的第五示例架构1200。FIG8 shows a first example architecture 800 of a chromatin model 802 disclosed in the present invention. FIG9 shows a second example architecture 900 of a chromatin model 802 disclosed in the present invention. FIG10 shows a third example architecture 1000 of a chromatin model 802 disclosed in the present invention. FIG11 shows a fourth example architecture 1100 of a chromatin model 802 disclosed in the present invention. FIG12 shows a fifth example architecture 1200 of a chromatin model 802 disclosed in the present invention. 如图8所示，染色质模型802包含按从低到高的顺序排列的多组残差块。每组残差块由残差块中的卷积滤波器的数量、残差块的卷积窗尺寸和残差块的空洞卷积速率参数化。在一些具体实施中，空洞卷积率从较低的残差块组到较高的残差块组以非指数方式进展。在其他具体实施中，空洞卷积率以指数方式进展。卷积窗尺寸在多组残差块之间变化，每个残差块包括至少一个批归一化层、至少一个修正线性单元(缩写为ReLU)层、至少一个空洞卷积层和至少一个残差连接。As shown in FIG8 , the chromatin model 802 includes multiple groups of residual blocks arranged in order from low to high. Each group of residual blocks is parameterized by the number of convolution filters in the residual block, the convolution window size of the residual block, and the dilated convolution rate of the residual block. In some embodiments, the dilated convolution rate progresses non-exponentially from a lower residual block group to a higher residual block group. In other embodiments, the dilated convolution rate progresses exponentially. The convolution window size varies between multiple groups of residual blocks, each residual block including at least one batch normalization layer, at least one rectified linear unit (abbreviated as ReLU) layer, at least one dilated convolution layer, and at least one residual connection. 如图9所示，输入的维数是(Cu+L+Cd)×4，其中Cu是上游侧翼背景碱基的数目，Cd是下游侧翼背景碱基的数目，L是输入启动子序列中的碱基数目。输出的维数是4×L。在一些具体实施中，每个残差块组通过处理先前输入而产生中间输出，该中间输出的维数是(I-[{(W-1)*D}*A])×N，其中I是先前输入的维数，W是残差块的卷积窗尺寸，D是残差块的空洞卷积率，A是该组中的空洞卷积层数目，N是残差块中的卷积滤波器数目。As shown in Figure 9, the dimension of the input is (Cu+L+Cd)×4, where Cu is the number of upstream flanking background bases, Cd is the number of downstream flanking background bases, and L is the number of bases in the input promoter sequence. The dimension of the output is 4×L. In some specific implementations, each residual block group generates an intermediate output by processing the previous input, and the dimension of the intermediate output is (I-[{(W-1)*D}*A])×N, where I is the dimension of the previous input, W is the convolution window size of the residual block, D is the dilated convolution rate of the residual block, A is the number of dilated convolution layers in the group, and N is the number of convolution filters in the residual block. 当输入在输入序列的左侧具有200个上游侧翼背景碱基(Cu)并且在输入序列的右侧具有200个下游侧翼背景碱基(Cd)时，使用示例架构1000。输入序列的长度(L)可以是任意值，诸如3001。在示例架构1000中，第一组中的每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器，卷积窗尺寸为11，空洞卷积率为1；第二组中的每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器，卷积窗尺寸为11，空洞卷积率为4。在其他架构中，每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器，卷积窗尺寸为11，空洞卷积率为1。The example architecture 1000 is used when the input has 200 upstream flanking background bases (Cu) on the left side of the input sequence and 200 downstream flanking background bases (Cd) on the right side of the input sequence. The length (L) of the input sequence can be any value, such as 3001. In the example architecture 1000, each residual block in the first group has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 11, and a dilated convolution rate of 1; each residual block in the second group has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 11, and a dilated convolution rate of 4. In other architectures, each residual block has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 11, and a dilated convolution rate of 1. 当输入在输入序列的左侧具有1000个上游侧翼背景碱基(Cu)并且在输入序列的右侧具有1000个下游侧翼背景碱基(Cd)时，使用示例架构1100。输入序列的长度(L)可以是任意值，诸如3001。在示例架构1100中，有至少三组四个残差块和至少三个跳跃连接。第一组中的每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器、卷积窗尺寸为11，空洞卷积率为1；第二组中的每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器，卷积窗尺寸为11，空洞卷积率为4；第三组中的每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器，卷积窗尺寸为21，空洞卷积率为19。The example architecture 1100 is used when the input has 1000 upstream flanking background bases (Cu) on the left side of the input sequence and 1000 downstream flanking background bases (Cd) on the right side of the input sequence. The length (L) of the input sequence can be any value, such as 3001. In the example architecture 1100, there are at least three groups of four residual blocks and at least three skip connections. Each residual block in the first group has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 11, and a dilated convolution rate of 1; each residual block in the second group has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 11, and a dilated convolution rate of 4; each residual block in the third group has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 21, and a dilated convolution rate of 19. 当输入在输入序列的左侧具有5000个上游侧翼背景碱基(Cu)并且在输入序列的右侧具有5000个下游侧翼背景碱基(Cd)时，使用示例架构1200。输入序列的长度(L)可以是任意值，诸如3001。在示例架构1200中，有至少四组四个残差块和至少四个跳跃连接。第一组中的每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器、卷积窗尺寸为11，空洞卷积率为1；第二组中的每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器，卷积窗尺寸为11，空洞卷积率为4；第三组中的每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器，卷积窗尺寸为21，空洞卷积率为19；第四组中的每个残差块具有32个卷积滤波器，卷积窗尺寸为41，空洞卷积率为25。The example architecture 1200 is used when the input has 5000 upstream flanking background bases (Cu) on the left side of the input sequence and 5000 downstream flanking background bases (Cd) on the right side of the input sequence. The length (L) of the input sequence can be any value, such as 3001. In the example architecture 1200, there are at least four groups of four residual blocks and at least four skip connections. Each residual block in the first group has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 11, and a dilated convolution rate of 1; each residual block in the second group has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 11, and a dilated convolution rate of 4; each residual block in the third group has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 21, and a dilated convolution rate of 19; each residual block in the fourth group has 32 convolution filters, a convolution window size of 41, and a dilated convolution rate of 25. 一般而言，染色质模型802可以是基于规则的模型、基于树的模型，或机器学习模型。示例包括多层感知机(MLP)、前馈神经网络、全连接神经网络、全卷积神经网络、ResNet、序列到序列(Seq2Seq)模型(如WaveNet)、语义分割神经网络和生成对抗网络(GAN)(例如，CycleGAN、StyleGAN、pixelRNN、text-2-image、DiscoGAN、IsGAN)。In general, the chromatin model 802 can be a rule-based model, a tree-based model, or a machine learning model. Examples include multi-layer perceptron (MLP), feed-forward neural network, fully connected neural network, fully convolutional neural network, ResNet, sequence to sequence (Seq2Seq) model (such as WaveNet), semantic segmentation neural network and generative adversarial network (GAN) (e.g., CycleGAN, StyleGAN, pixelRNN, text-2-image, DiscoGAN, IsGAN). 在一些具体实施中，染色质模型802可以包括自注意力机制如变换器、视觉变换器(ViT)、双向变换器(BERT)、检测变换器(DETR)、可变形DETR、UP-DETR、DeiT、Swin、GPT、iGPT、GPT-2、GPT-3、BERT、SpanBERT、RoBERTa、XLNet、ELECTRA、UniLM、BART、T5、ERNIE(THU)、KnowBERT、DeiT-Ti、DeiT-S、DeiT-B、T2T-ViT-14、T2T-ViT-19、T2T-ViT-24、PVT-Small、PVT-Medium、PVT-Large、TNT-S、TNT-B、CPVT-S、CPVT-S-GAP、CPVT-B、Swin-T、Swin-S、Swin-B、Twins-SVT-S、Twins-SVT-B、Twins-SVT-L、Shuffle-T、Shuffle-S、Shuffle-B、XCiT-S12/16、CMT-S、CMT-B、VOLO-D1、VOLO-D2、VOLO-D3、VOLO-D4、MoCo v3、ACT、TSP、Max-DeepLab、VisTR、SETR、手动变换器、HOT-Net、METRO、图像变换器、驯服变换器、TransGAN、IPT、TTSR、STTN、掩蔽变换器、CLIP、DALL-E、Cogview、UniT、ASH、TinyBert、FullyQT、ConvBert、FCOS、Faster R-CNN+FPN、DETR-DC5、TSP-FCOS、TSP-RCNN、ACT+MKDD(L＝32)、ACT+MKDD(L＝16)、SMCA、高效DETR、UP-DETR、UP-DETR、ViTB/16-FRCNN、ViT-B/16-FRCNN、PVT-Small+RetinaNet、Swin-T+RetinaNet、Swin-T+ATSS、PVT-Small+DETR、TNT-S+DETR、YOLOS-Ti、YOLOS-S和YOLOS-B。In some implementations, the chromatin model 802 can include a self-attention mechanism such as a Transformer, a Visual Transformer (ViT), a Bidirectional Transformer (BERT), a Detection Transformer (DETR), a Deformable DETR, UP-DETR, DeiT, Swin, GPT, iGPT, GPT-2, GPT-3, BERT, SpanBERT, RoBERTa, XLNet, ELECTRA, UniLM, BART, T5, ERNIE (THU), KnowBERT, DeiT-Ti, DeiT-S, DeiT-B, T2T-ViT-14, T2T-ViT-19 , T2T-ViT-24, PVT-Small, PVT-Medium, PVT-Large, TNT-S, TNT-B, CPVT-S, CPVT-S-GAP, CPVT-B, Swin-T, Swin-S, Swin-B, Twins-SVT-S, Twins-SVT-B, Twins-SVT-L, Shuffle-T, Shuffle-S, Shuffle-B, XCiT-S12/16, CMT-S, CMT-B, VOLO-D1, VOLO-D2, VOLO-D3, VOLO-D4, MoCo v3, ACT, TSP, Max-DeepLab, VisTR, SETR, Manual Transformer, HOT-Net, METRO, Image Transformer, Tamed Transformer, TransGAN, IPT, TTSR, STTN, Masked Transformer, CLIP, DALL-E, Cogview, UniT, ASH, TinyBert, FullyQT, ConvBert, FCOS, Faster R-CNN+FPN, DETR-DC5, TSP-FCOS, TSP-RCNN, ACT+MKDD(L＝32), ACT+MKDD(L＝16), SMCA, efficient DETR, UP-DETR, UP-DETR, ViTB/16-FRCNN, ViT -B/16-FRCNN, PVT-Small+RetinaNet, Swin-T+RetinaNet, Swin-T+ATSS, PVT-Small+DETR, TNT-S+DETR, YOLOS-Ti, YOLOS-S and YOLOS-B. 在一些具体实施中，染色质模型802的示例包括：具有多个卷积层的卷积神经网络(CNN)；循环神经网络(RNN)，诸如长短期记忆网络(LSTM)、双向LSTM(Bi-LSTM)或门控递归单元)；以及CNN和RNN两者的组合。In some embodiments, examples of the chromatin model 802 include: a convolutional neural network (CNN) having multiple convolutional layers; a recurrent neural network (RNN), such as a long short-term memory network (LSTM), a bidirectional LSTM (Bi-LSTM), or a gated recurrent unit); and a combination of both CNN and RNN. 在一些具体实施中，染色质模型802可以使用1D卷积、2D卷积、3D卷积、4D卷积、5D卷积、扩张或空洞卷积、转置卷积、深度可分离卷积、逐点卷积、1×1卷积、分组卷积、扁平卷积、空间和跨通道卷积、混洗分组卷积、空间可分离卷积和解卷积。染色质模型802可以使用一种或多种损失函数，诸如逻辑回归/对数损失函数、多类交叉熵/softmax损失函数、二元交叉熵损失函数、均方误差损失函数、L1损失函数、L2损失函数、平滑L1损失函数和Huber损失函数。染色质模型802可以使用任何并行性方案、效率方案和压缩方案，诸如TFRecord、压缩编码(例如，PNG)、分片、映射图转换的并行检出、批处理、预取、模型并行性、数据并行性，以及同步/异步随机梯度下降(SGD)。染色质模型802可以包括上采样层、下采样层、递归连接、门极和门控存储器单元(如LSTM或GRU)、残差块、残差连接、高速连接、跳跃连接、窥视孔连接、激活函数(例如，非线性变换函数如修正线性单元(ReLU)、泄露ReLU、指数线性单元(ELU)、sigmoid和双曲线正切(tanh))、批归一化层、正则化层、丢弃层、池化层(例如，最大或平均池化)、全局平均池化层和注意力机制。In some implementations, the chromatin model 802 may use 1D convolution, 2D convolution, 3D convolution, 4D convolution, 5D convolution, dilated or atrous convolution, transposed convolution, depthwise separable convolution, pointwise convolution, 1×1 convolution, grouped convolution, flattened convolution, spatial and cross-channel convolution, shuffled grouped convolution, spatially separable convolution, and deconvolution. The chromatin model 802 may use one or more loss functions, such as logistic regression/logarithmic loss function, multi-class cross entropy/softmax loss function, binary cross entropy loss function, mean square error loss function, L1 loss function, L2 loss function, smooth L1 loss function, and Huber loss function. The chromatin model 802 may use any parallelism scheme, efficiency scheme, and compression scheme, such as TFRecord, compression encoding (e.g., PNG), sharding, parallel detection of map transformations, batching, prefetching, model parallelism, data parallelism, and synchronous/asynchronous stochastic gradient descent (SGD). The chromatin model 802 may include upsampling layers, downsampling layers, recurrent connections, gates and gated memory units (such as LSTM or GRU), residual blocks, residual connections, high-speed connections, skip connections, peephole connections, activation functions (e.g., non-linear transformation functions such as rectified linear units (ReLU), leaky ReLU, exponential linear units (ELU), sigmoid, and hyperbolic tangent (tanh)), batch normalization layers, regularization layers, dropout layers, pooling layers (e.g., max or average pooling), global average pooling layers, and attention mechanisms. 在一些具体实施中，染色质模型802可以是线性回归模型、逻辑回归模型、弹性网模型、支持向量机(SVM)、随机森林(RF)、决策树或增强决策树(例如，XGBoost)，或者一些其他基于树的逻辑(例如，度量树、kd树、R树、通用B树、X树、球树、位置敏感散列和倒排索引)。在一些具体实施中，染色质模型802可以是多个模型的系综。In some implementations, the chromatin model 802 can be a linear regression model, a logistic regression model, an elastic net model, a support vector machine (SVM), a random forest (RF), a decision tree or a boosted decision tree (e.g., XGBoost), or some other tree-based logic (e.g., a metric tree, a kd tree, an R tree, a general B tree, an X tree, a ball tree, a locality-sensitive hash, and an inverted index). In some implementations, the chromatin model 802 can be an ensemble of multiple models. 在一些具体实施中，可以使用基于反向传播的梯度更新技术来训练染色质模型802。可以用于训练这些模型的示例梯度下降技术包括随机梯度下降、批量梯度下降和微型批量梯度下降。可以用于训练这些模型的梯度下降优化算法的一些示例是Momentum、Nesterov加速梯度、Adagrad、Adadelta、RMSprop、Adam、AdaMax、Nadam和AMSGrad。In some implementations, a back-propagation based gradient update technique can be used to train the chromatin model 802. Example gradient descent techniques that can be used to train these models include stochastic gradient descent, batch gradient descent, and mini-batch gradient descent. Some examples of gradient descent optimization algorithms that can be used to train these models are Momentum, Nesterov accelerated gradient, Adagrad, Adadelta, RMSprop, Adam, AdaMax, Nadam, and AMSGrad. 输入碱基序列Input base sequence 图13展示访问序列数据库1302(例如，GTEx、RNA-Seq、WGS)并生成输入碱基序列1314的输入生成逻辑部件1304。输入碱基序列1314包括靶碱基序列1324。靶碱基序列1324侧接具有下游背景碱基的右端碱基序列1322，以及具有上游背景碱基的左端碱基序列1326。13 shows an input generation logic component 1304 that accesses a sequence database 1302 (e.g., GTEx, RNA-Seq, WGS) and generates an input base sequence 1314. The input base sequence 1314 includes a target base sequence 1324. The target base sequence 1324 is flanked by a right-end base sequence 1322 having downstream background bases, and a left-end base sequence 1326 having upstream background bases. 碱基分辨率输出序列Base-resolution output sequence 图14描绘通过染色质模型802进行碱基分辨率进化保守性预测1400的一种具体实施。染色质模型802处理输入碱基序列1314并生成输入碱基序列1314的替代性表示1406。在一种具体实施中，当输入碱基序列1314由染色质模型802的卷积层级联处理时，替代性表示1406是输入碱基序列1314的卷积表示。14 depicts a specific implementation of base-resolution evolutionary conservation prediction 1400 by the chromatin model 802. The chromatin model 802 processes the input base sequence 1314 and generates an alternative representation 1406 of the input base sequence 1314. In a specific implementation, when the input base sequence 1314 is processed by the convolutional layers of the chromatin model 802 in cascade, the alternative representation 1406 is a convolutional representation of the input base sequence 1314. 染色质输出生成逻辑部件1408处理输入碱基序列1314的替代性表示1406，并针对靶碱基序列1324中的相应靶碱基生成相应的每碱基染色质输出的输出序列1410。The chromatin output generation logic component 1408 processes the alternative representations 1406 of the input base sequence 1314 and generates an output sequence 1410 of corresponding per-base chromatin outputs for corresponding target bases in the target base sequence 1324 . 图15示出对应于靶碱基序列1324的输出序列1410的一个示例。对于靶碱基序列1324中给定位置处的给定靶碱基，输出序列1410中给定的每碱基染色质输出指定该给定靶碱基跨多个物种的进化保守性的量度。多个物种可以包括同源物种。15 shows an example of an output sequence 1410 corresponding to a target base sequence 1324. For a given target base at a given position in the target base sequence 1324, a per-base chromatin output given in the output sequence 1410 specifies a measure of evolutionary conservation of the given target base across multiple species. The multiple species may include homologous species. 预测变体的功能后果至少部分地依赖于以下假设：由于负选择，蛋白质家族的关键氨基酸在进化过程中是保守的(即，在这些位点处的氨基酸变化在过去是有害的)，而且在这些位点处的突变增加了在人类中致病(引起疾病)的可能性。收集靶蛋白的同源序列，并以多序列比对(MSA)进行比对。基于在MSA中的靶位置观察到的不同氨基酸的加权评分和/或频率来计算保守性度量。Predicting the functional consequences of variants relies, at least in part, on the assumption that key amino acids in a protein family are conserved during evolution due to negative selection (i.e., amino acid changes at these sites were deleterious in the past) and that mutations at these sites increase the likelihood of being pathogenic (causing disease) in humans. Homologous sequences of the target protein are collected and aligned in a multiple sequence alignment (MSA). Conservation metrics are calculated based on weighted scores and/or frequencies of different amino acids observed at the target position in the MSA. MSA通常是长度相似的三种或更多种生物序列、蛋白质或核酸的比对。从该比对可以推断同源性程度并研究序列之间的进化关系。MSA也是一种用于识别基因之间的进化关系和常见模式的工具。使用计算算法来生成比对并加以分析。在大多数MSA算法中使用动态和启发式方法。比对的目的之一是检测蛋白质序列中的残基相对于其他蛋白质序列中的残基之间的结构或功能同一性和相似性。MSA is usually an alignment of three or more biological sequences, proteins or nucleic acids of similar length. From this alignment, the degree of homology can be inferred and the evolutionary relationships between sequences can be studied. MSA is also a tool for identifying evolutionary relationships and common patterns between genes. Computational algorithms are used to generate the alignment and analyze it. Dynamic and heuristic methods are used in most MSA algorithms. One of the purposes of alignment is to detect structural or functional identity and similarity between residues in a protein sequence relative to residues in other protein sequences. 关于MSA中的比对序列的同源信息可以用以下两个矩阵(进化保守性度量)来表示：位置特异性评分矩阵(PSSM)和位置特异性频率矩阵(PSFM)。PSSM和PSFM基于进化信息反映蛋白质链特定位置处残基的保守性。The homology information about the aligned sequences in MSA can be represented by the following two matrices (evolutionary conservation metrics): position-specific score matrix (PSSM) and position-specific frequency matrix (PSFM). PSSM and PSFM reflect the conservation of residues at specific positions of protein chains based on evolutionary information. 在一些具体实施中，给定的每碱基染色质输出进一步指定给定位置处的给定靶碱基的转录起始量度。In some implementations, a given per-base chromatin output further specifies a transcription start measure for a given target base at a given position. 在一种具体实施中，进化保守性的量度是系统发育P值(phyloP)评分，其指定相对于神经替代零模型的偏差，以便将给定位置处的给定靶碱基的替代率降低检测为保守，并且将给定位置处的给定靶碱基的替代率增加检测为加速。In one embodiment, the measure of evolutionary conservation is a phylogenetic P-value (phyloP) score that specifies the deviation from a neural substitution null model so that a decrease in the substitution rate of a given target base at a given position is detected as conservation and an increase in the substitution rate of a given target base at a given position is detected as acceleration. 在一种具体实施中，进化保守性的量度是phastCons评分，其指定在所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基具有保守状态或非保守状态的后验概率。In one implementation, the measure of evolutionary conservation is a phastCons score, which specifies the posterior probability that the given target base at the given position has a conserved state or a non-conserved state. 在一种具体实施中，进化保守性的量度是基因组进化速率分析(GERP)评分，其指定给定位置处的给定靶碱基的替代数目跨多个物种的减少。In one implementation, the measure of evolutionary conservation is a Genome Evolutionary Rate Analysis (GERP) score, which specifies the decrease in the number of substitutions for a given target base at a given position across multiple species. 在一种具体实施中，转录起始的量度是帽分析基因表达(CAGE)评分，其指定给定位置处的给定靶碱基的转录起始频率。In one implementation, the measure of transcription initiation is a Cap Analysis Gene Expression (CAGE) score, which specifies the frequency of transcription initiation for a given target base at a given position. 在一些具体实施中，给定的每碱基染色质输出进一步指定给定位置处的给定靶碱基的混杂因素信号水平。在一种具体实施中，混杂因素信号水平指定DNA酶I-超敏感位点(DHS)。在一种具体实施中，混杂因素信号水平指定转座酶可及染色质测序分析(ATAC-Seq)。在另一种具体实施中，混杂因素信号水平指定转录因子(TF)结合。在又一种具体实施中，混杂因素信号水平指定组蛋白修饰(HM)标记。在又一种具体实施中，混杂因素信号水平指定DNA甲基化标记。In some implementations, a given per-base chromatin output further specifies the confounding factor signal level of a given target base at a given position. In one implementation, the confounding factor signal level specifies a DNA enzyme I-hypersensitive site (DHS). In one implementation, the confounding factor signal level specifies transposase accessible chromatin sequencing analysis (ATAC-Seq). In another implementation, the confounding factor signal level specifies transcription factor (TF) binding. In yet another implementation, the confounding factor signal level specifies histone modification (HM) marks. In yet another implementation, the confounding factor signal level specifies DNA methylation marks. 碱基分辨率基因表达水平预测Base-resolution gene expression level prediction 基因表达模型Gene expression model 图16示出本发明所公开的基因表达模型1600的一种具体实施。一般而言，基因表达模型1602可以是基于规则的模型、基于树的模型，或机器学习模型。示例包括多层感知机(MLP)、前馈神经网络、全连接神经网络、全卷积神经网络、ResNet、序列到序列(Seq2Seq)模型(如WaveNet)、语义分割神经网络和生成对抗网络(GAN)(例如，CycleGAN、StyleGAN、pixelRNN、text-2-image、DiscoGAN、IsGAN)。FIG16 shows a specific implementation of the gene expression model 1600 disclosed in the present invention. In general, the gene expression model 1602 can be a rule-based model, a tree-based model, or a machine learning model. Examples include multi-layer perceptron (MLP), feed-forward neural network, fully connected neural network, fully convolutional neural network, ResNet, sequence to sequence (Seq2Seq) model (such as WaveNet), semantic segmentation neural network and generative adversarial network (GAN) (e.g., CycleGAN, StyleGAN, pixelRNN, text-2-image, DiscoGAN, IsGAN). 在一些具体实施中，基因表达模型1602可以包括自注意力机制如变换器、视觉变换器(ViT)、双向变换器(BERT)、检测变换器(DETR)、可变形DETR、UP-DETR、DeiT、Swin、GPT、iGPT、GPT-2、GPT-3、BERT、SpanBERT、RoBERTa、XLNet、ELECTRA、UniLM、BART、T5、ERNIE(THU)、KnowBERT、DeiT-Ti、DeiT-S、DeiT-B、T2T-ViT-14、T2T-ViT-19、T2T-ViT-24、PVT-Small、PVT-Medium、PVT-Large、TNT-S、TNT-B、CPVT-S、CPVT-S-GAP、CPVT-B、Swin-T、Swin-S、Swin-B、Twins-SVT-S、Twins-SVT-B、Twins-SVT-L、Shuffle-T、Shuffle-S、Shuffle-B、XCiT-S12/16、CMT-S、CMT-B、VOLO-D1、VOLO-D2、VOLO-D3、VOLO-D4、MoCo v3、ACT、TSP、Max-DeepLab、VisTR、SETR、手动变换器、HOT-Net、METRO、图像变换器、驯服变换器、TransGAN、IPT、TTSR、STTN、掩蔽变换器、CLIP、DALL-E、Cogview、UniT、ASH、TinyBert、FullyQT、ConvBert、FCOS、Faster R-CNN+FPN、DETR-DC5、TSP-FCOS、TSP-RCNN、ACT+MKDD(L＝32)、ACT+MKDD(L＝16)、SMCA、高效DETR、UP-DETR、UP-DETR、ViTB/16-FRCNN、ViT-B/16-FRCNN、PVT-Small+RetinaNet、Swin-T+RetinaNet、Swin-T+ATSS、PVT-Small+DETR、TNT-S+DETR、YOLOS-Ti、YOLOS-S和YOLOS-B。In some implementations, the gene expression model 1602 can include a self-attention mechanism such as a Transformer, a Visual Transformer (ViT), a Bidirectional Transformer (BERT), a Detection Transformer (DETR), a Deformable DETR, UP-DETR, DeiT, Swin, GPT, iGPT, GPT-2, GPT-3, BERT, SpanBERT, RoBERTa, XLNet, ELECTRA, UniLM, BART, T5, ERNIE (THU), KnowBERT, DeiT-Ti, DeiT-S, DeiT-B, T2T-ViT-14, T2T-ViT-15, 9. T2T-ViT-24, PVT-Small, PVT-Medium, PVT-Large, TNT-S, TNT-B, CPVT-S, CPVT-S-GAP, CPVT-B, Swin-T, Swin-S, Swin-B, Twins-SVT-S, Twins-SVT-B, Twins-SVT-L, Shuffle-T, Shuffle-S, Shuffle-B, XCiT-S12/16, CMT-S, CMT-B, VOLO-D1, VOLO-D2, VOLO-D3, VOLO-D4, MoCo v3, ACT, TSP, Max-DeepLab, VisTR, SETR, Manual Transformer, HOT-Net, METRO, Image Transformer, Tamed Transformer, TransGAN, IPT, TTSR, STTN, Masked Transformer, CLIP, DALL-E, Cogview, UniT, ASH, TinyBert, FullyQT, ConvBert, FCOS, Faster R-CNN+FPN, DETR-DC5, TSP-FCOS, TSP-RCNN, ACT+MKDD(L＝32), ACT+MKDD(L＝16), SMCA, efficient DETR, UP-DETR, UP-DETR, ViTB/16-FRCNN, ViT -B/16-FRCNN, PVT-Small+RetinaNet, Swin-T+RetinaNet, Swin-T+ATSS, PVT-Small+DETR, TNT-S+DETR, YOLOS-Ti, YOLOS-S and YOLOS-B. 在一些具体实施中，基因表达模型1602的示例包括：具有多个卷积层的卷积神经网络(CNN)；循环神经网络(RNN)，诸如长短期记忆网络(LSTM)、双向LSTM(Bi-LSTM)或门控递归单元)；以及CNN和RNN两者的组合。In some embodiments, examples of gene expression model 1602 include: a convolutional neural network (CNN) with multiple convolutional layers; a recurrent neural network (RNN), such as a long short-term memory network (LSTM), a bidirectional LSTM (Bi-LSTM), or a gated recurrent unit); and a combination of both CNN and RNN. 在一些具体实施中，基因表达模型1602可以使用1D卷积、2D卷积、3D卷积、4D卷积、5D卷积、扩张或空洞卷积、转置卷积、深度可分离卷积、逐点卷积、1×1卷积、分组卷积、扁平卷积、空间和跨通道卷积、混洗分组卷积、空间可分离卷积和解卷积。基因表达模型1602可以使用一种或多种损失函数，诸如逻辑回归/对数损失函数、多类交叉熵/softmax损失函数、二元交叉熵损失函数、均方误差损失函数、L1损失函数、L2损失函数、平滑L1损失函数和Huber损失函数。基因表达模型1602可以使用任何并行性方案、效率方案和压缩方案，诸如TFRecord、压缩编码(例如，PNG)、分片、映射图转换的并行检出、批处理、预取、模型并行性、数据并行性，以及同步/异步随机梯度下降(SGD)。基因表达模型1602可以包括上采样层、下采样层、递归连接、门极和门控存储器单元(如LSTM或GRU)、残差块、残差连接、高速连接、跳跃连接、窥视孔连接、激活函数(例如，非线性变换函数如修正线性单元(ReLU)、泄露ReLU、指数线性单元(ELU)、sigmoid和双曲线正切(tanh))、批归一化层、正则化层、丢弃层、池化层(例如，最大或平均池化)、全局平均池化层和注意力机制。In some implementations, the gene expression model 1602 may use 1D convolution, 2D convolution, 3D convolution, 4D convolution, 5D convolution, dilated or dilated convolution, transposed convolution, depthwise separable convolution, pointwise convolution, 1×1 convolution, grouped convolution, flattened convolution, spatial and cross-channel convolution, shuffled grouped convolution, spatially separable convolution, and deconvolution. The gene expression model 1602 may use one or more loss functions, such as logistic regression/logarithmic loss function, multi-class cross entropy/softmax loss function, binary cross entropy loss function, mean square error loss function, L1 loss function, L2 loss function, smooth L1 loss function, and Huber loss function. The gene expression model 1602 may use any parallelism scheme, efficiency scheme, and compression scheme, such as TFRecord, compression encoding (e.g., PNG), sharding, parallel detection of map conversion, batching, prefetching, model parallelism, data parallelism, and synchronous/asynchronous stochastic gradient descent (SGD). The gene expression model 1602 may include upsampling layers, downsampling layers, recurrent connections, gates and gated memory units (such as LSTM or GRU), residual blocks, residual connections, high-speed connections, skip connections, peephole connections, activation functions (e.g., non-linear transformation functions such as rectified linear units (ReLU), leaky ReLU, exponential linear units (ELU), sigmoid, and hyperbolic tangent (tanh)), batch normalization layers, regularization layers, dropout layers, pooling layers (e.g., max or average pooling), global average pooling layers, and attention mechanisms. 在一些具体实施中，基因表达模型1602可以是线性回归模型、逻辑回归模型、弹性网模型、支持向量机(SVM)、随机森林(RF)、决策树或增强决策树(例如，XGBoost)，或者一些其他基于树的逻辑(例如，度量树、kd树、R树、通用B树、X树、球树、位置敏感散列和倒排索引)。在一些具体实施中，基因表达模型1602可以是多个模型的系综。In some implementations, the gene expression model 1602 may be a linear regression model, a logistic regression model, an elastic net model, a support vector machine (SVM), a random forest (RF), a decision tree or an enhanced decision tree (e.g., XGBoost), or some other tree-based logic (e.g., a metric tree, a kd tree, an R tree, a general B tree, an X tree, a ball tree, a locality-sensitive hash, and an inverted index). In some implementations, the gene expression model 1602 may be an ensemble of multiple models. 在一些具体实施中，可以使用基于反向传播的梯度更新技术来训练基因表达模型1602。可以用于训练这些模型的示例梯度下降技术包括随机梯度下降、批量梯度下降和微型批量梯度下降。可以用于训练这些模型的梯度下降优化算法的一些示例是Momentum、Nesterov加速梯度、Adagrad、Adadelta、RMSprop、Adam、AdaMax、Nadam和AMS Grad。In some implementations, the gene expression model 1602 can be trained using a back-propagation based gradient update technique. Example gradient descent techniques that can be used to train these models include stochastic gradient descent, batch gradient descent, and mini-batch gradient descent. Some examples of gradient descent optimization algorithms that can be used to train these models are Momentum, Nesterov accelerated gradient, Adagrad, Adadelta, RMSprop, Adam, AdaMax, Nadam, and AMS Grad. 基因表达模型1602处理输出序列1410并生成输出序列1410的替代性表示1612。在一种具体实施中，当输出序列1410由基因表达模型1602的卷积层级联处理时，替代性表示1612是输出序列1410的卷积表示。The gene expression model 1602 processes the output sequence 1410 and generates an alternative representation 1612 of the output sequence 1410. In one specific implementation, the alternative representation 1612 is a convolutional representation of the output sequence 1410 when the output sequence 1410 is processed by the convolutional layers of the gene expression model 1602 in cascade. 基因表达模型输出生成逻辑部件1622处理输出序列1410的替代性表示1612，并针对靶碱基序列1324中的相应靶碱基生成相应的每碱基基因表达输出的基因表达输出序列1632。The gene expression model output generation logic component 1622 processes the alternative representations 1612 of the output sequence 1410 and generates a gene expression output sequence 1632 of corresponding per-base gene expression outputs for corresponding target bases in the target base sequence 1324 . 基因表达输出序列1632中对于给定位置处的给定靶碱基，给定的每碱基基因表达输出指定给定靶碱基在给定位置处的基因表达水平的量度。在一种具体实施中，以每碱基度量(诸如CAGE转录起始位点(CTSS))来测量基因表达水平。在另一种具体实施中，以每基因度量(诸如每百万转录物(TPM)或每千碱基转录物的读数(RPKM))来测量基因表达水平。在又一种具体实施中，以每基因度量(诸如每千碱基百万片段(FPKM))来测量基因表达水平。For a given target base at a given position in the gene expression output sequence 1632, a given per base gene expression output specifies a measure of the gene expression level of a given target base at a given position. In one implementation, the gene expression level is measured per base metric (such as CAGE transcription start site (CTSS)). In another implementation, the gene expression level is measured per gene metric (such as transcripts per million (TPM) or reads per kilobase of transcripts (RPKM)). In yet another implementation, the gene expression level is measured per gene metric (such as fragments per kilobase per million (FPKM)). 变体致病性分类Variant pathogenicity classification 图17示出参考序列1702和另选序列1722(或替代性序列)的一个示例。另选序列1712与参考序列1702的不同之处在于变体核苷酸1722。17 shows an example of a reference sequence 1702 and an alternative sequence 1722 (or alternative sequence). The alternative sequence 1712 differs from the reference sequence 1702 by a variant nucleotide 1722. 图18展示本发明所公开的变体分类逻辑部件1800的一种具体实施。变体分类逻辑部件1800被进一步配置为包括参考输入生成逻辑部件1802，该参考输入生成逻辑部件访问序列数据库1302并生成参考碱基序列1702。参考碱基序列1702包括参考靶碱基序列。参考靶碱基序列包括在分析中的位置处的参考碱基。参考碱基侧接具有下游背景碱基的右端碱基序列，以及具有上游背景碱基的左端碱基序列。FIG. 18 shows a specific implementation of variant classification logic 1800 disclosed in the present invention. Variant classification logic 1800 is further configured to include reference input generation logic 1802, which accesses sequence database 1302 and generates reference base sequence 1702. Reference base sequence 1702 includes a reference target base sequence. The reference target base sequence includes a reference base at the position under analysis. The reference base is flanked by a right-end base sequence with downstream background bases, and a left-end base sequence with upstream background bases. 变体分类逻辑部件1800被进一步配置为包括另选输入生成逻辑部件1812，该另选输入生成逻辑部件访问序列数据库1302并生成另选碱基序列1712。另选碱基序列1712包括另选靶碱基序列。另选靶碱基序列包括在分析中的位置处的另选碱基1722。另选碱基1722侧接具有下游背景碱基的右端碱基序列，以及具有上游背景碱基的左端碱基序列。The variant classification logic 1800 is further configured to include an alternative input generation logic 1812 that accesses the sequence database 1302 and generates an alternative base sequence 1712. The alternative base sequence 1712 includes an alternative target base sequence. The alternative target base sequence includes an alternative base 1722 at the position under analysis. The alternative base 1722 is flanked by a right end base sequence with downstream background bases, and a left end base sequence with upstream background bases. 变体分类逻辑部件1800被进一步配置为包括参考处理逻辑部件1822，该参考处理逻辑部件使得染色质模型802处理参考碱基序列1702并生成参考碱基序列1702的替代性表示1832，而且还使得染色质输出生成逻辑部件1408处理参考碱基序列1702的替代性表示1832并生成参考靶碱基序列中的相应参考靶碱基的相应每碱基参考染色质输出的参考输出序列1842。The variant classification logic component 1800 is further configured to include a reference processing logic component 1822, which causes the chromatin model 802 to process the reference base sequence 1702 and generate an alternative representation 1832 of the reference base sequence 1702, and also causes the chromatin output generation logic component 1408 to process the alternative representation 1832 of the reference base sequence 1702 and generate a reference output sequence 1842 of a corresponding per-base reference chromatin output for the corresponding reference target base in the reference target base sequence. 对于参考靶碱基序列中给定位置处的给定参考靶碱基，参考输出序列1842中给定的每碱基参考染色质输出指定该给定参考靶碱基跨多个物种的进化保守性的量度。For a given reference target base at a given position in a reference target base sequence, the per-base reference chromatin output given in reference output sequence 1842 specifies a measure of evolutionary conservation of the given reference target base across multiple species. 变体分类逻辑部件1800被进一步配置为包括另选处理逻辑部件1852，该另选处理逻辑部件使得染色质模型802处理另选碱基序列1712并生成另选碱基序列1712的替代性表示1862，而且还使得染色质输出生成逻辑部件1408处理另选碱基序列1712的替代性表示1862并生成另选靶碱基序列中的相应另选靶碱基的相应每碱基另选染色质输出的另选输出序列1872。The variant classification logic component 1800 is further configured to include an alternative processing logic component 1852, which causes the chromatin model 802 to process the alternative base sequence 1712 and generate an alternative representation 1862 of the alternative base sequence 1712, and also causes the chromatin output generation logic component 1408 to process the alternative representation 1862 of the alternative base sequence 1712 and generate an alternative output sequence 1872 of a corresponding per-base alternative chromatin output of the corresponding alternative target base in the alternative target base sequence. 另选输出序列1872中对于另选靶碱基序列中给定位置处的给定另选靶碱基，给定的每碱基另选染色质输出指定该给定另选靶碱基跨多个物种的进化保守性的量度。In alternative output sequence 1872, for a given alternative target base at a given position in the alternative target base sequence, a given per-base alternative chromatin output specifies a measure of the evolutionary conservation of the given alternative target base across multiple species. 图19展示本发明所公开的致病性预测逻辑部件1900的一种具体实施。变体分类逻辑部件1800被进一步配置为包括致病性预测逻辑部件1900，该致病性预测逻辑部件按位置比较参考输出序列1842和另选输出序列1872，然后生成具有参考输出序列1842和另选输出序列1872中的位置的按位置序列差值的增量序列1912。19 shows a specific implementation of the pathogenicity prediction logic component 1900 disclosed in the present invention. The variant classification logic component 1800 is further configured to include a pathogenicity prediction logic component 1900 that compares the reference output sequence 1842 and the alternative output sequence 1872 by position, and then generates an incremental sequence 1912 having positional sequence differences of the positions in the reference output sequence 1842 and the alternative output sequence 1872. 致病性预测逻辑部件1900被进一步配置为根据增量序列1912为另选碱基1722生成致病性预测1922。在一种具体实施中，致病性预测逻辑部件1900被进一步配置为将按位置的序列差值累积成累积的序列值，然后根据累积的序列值生成另选碱基1722的致病性预测1922。在一些具体实施中，累积的序列值是按位置的序列差值的平均值或最大值。在其他具体实施中，累积的序列值是按位置的序列差值的总和。The pathogenicity prediction logic 1900 is further configured to generate a pathogenicity prediction 1922 for the alternative base 1722 based on the incremental sequence 1912. In one implementation, the pathogenicity prediction logic 1900 is further configured to accumulate the sequence difference values by position into a cumulative sequence value, and then generate a pathogenicity prediction 1922 for the alternative base 1722 based on the cumulative sequence value. In some implementations, the cumulative sequence value is the average or maximum value of the sequence difference values by position. In other implementations, the cumulative sequence value is the sum of the sequence difference values by position. 在一些具体实施中，致病性预测逻辑部件1900被进一步配置为按位置比较参考输出序列1842和另选输出序列1872的相应部分，然后生成具有这些相应部分中的位置的按位置子序列差值的增量子序列。In some implementations, pathogenicity prediction logic 1900 is further configured to compare corresponding portions of reference output sequence 1842 and alternative output sequence 1872 by position, and then generate incremental subsequences having position-wise subsequence differences of positions in the corresponding portions. 在一种具体实施中，这些相应部分跨越分析中的位置周围的右端侧翼位置和左端侧翼位置。在一些具体实施中，致病性预测逻辑部件1900被进一步配置为根据增量子序列为另选碱基1722生成致病性预测。在一种具体实施中，致病性预测可以是介于0与1之间的评分，其中0表示绝对良性，1表示绝对致病性。在其他具体实施中，可以使用截止值，诸如，致病性评分高于5可以被认为是致病性的，低于5可以被认为是良性的。In one implementation, these corresponding portions span the right flanking positions and the left flanking positions around the position under analysis. In some implementations, the pathogenicity prediction logic component 1900 is further configured to generate a pathogenicity prediction for the alternative base 1722 based on the incremental subsequence. In one implementation, the pathogenicity prediction can be a score between 0 and 1, where 0 represents absolute benign and 1 represents absolute pathogenicity. In other implementations, a cutoff value can be used, such as a pathogenicity score above 5 can be considered pathogenic and below 5 can be considered benign. 在一些具体实施中，致病性预测逻辑部件1900被进一步配置为将按位置的子序列差值累积成累积的子序列值，然后根据累积的子序列值生成另选碱基1722的致病性预测。在一种具体实施中，累积的子序列值是按位置的子序列差值的平均值。在另一种具体实施中，累积的子序列值是按位置的子序列差值的总和或最大值。In some implementations, the pathogenicity prediction logic 1900 is further configured to accumulate the subsequence differences by position into a cumulative subsequence value, and then generate a pathogenicity prediction for the alternative base 1722 based on the cumulative subsequence value. In one implementation, the cumulative subsequence value is the average of the subsequence differences by position. In another implementation, the cumulative subsequence value is the sum or maximum of the subsequence differences by position. 计算机系统Computer Systems 图20是可以用于实现本发明所公开技术的各种方面的示例计算机系统2000。计算机系统2000包括经由总线子系统2022与多个外围设备通信的至少一个中央处理单元(CPU)2024。这些外围设备可以包括存储子系统2010(包括例如存储器设备和文件存储子系统2018)、用户界面输入设备2020、用户界面输出设备2028和网络接口子系统2026。输入设备和输出设备允许用户与计算机系统2000进行交互。网络接口子系统2026提供通向外部网络的接口，包括通向其他计算机系统中的对应接口设备的接口。FIG20 is an example computer system 2000 that can be used to implement various aspects of the technology disclosed in the present invention. The computer system 2000 includes at least one central processing unit (CPU) 2024 that communicates with multiple peripheral devices via a bus subsystem 2022. These peripheral devices may include a storage subsystem 2010 (including, for example, a memory device and a file storage subsystem 2018), a user interface input device 2020, a user interface output device 2028, and a network interface subsystem 2026. The input devices and output devices allow a user to interact with the computer system 2000. The network interface subsystem 2026 provides an interface to an external network, including an interface to corresponding interface devices in other computer systems. 在一种具体实施中，染色质模型802以能够通信的方式链接到存储子系统2010和用户界面输入设备2020。In one specific implementation, the chromatin model 802 is communicatively linked to the storage subsystem 2010 and the user interface input device 2020 . 用户界面输入设备2020可以包括：键盘；指向设备，诸如鼠标、轨迹球、触摸板或图形输入板；扫描仪；结合到显示器中的触摸屏；音频输入设备，诸如语音识别系统和麦克风；以及其他类型的输入设备。一般来讲，使用术语“输入设备”旨在包括将信息输入到计算机系统2000中的所有可能类型的设备和方式。User interface input devices 2020 may include: keyboards; pointing devices, such as mice, trackballs, touch pads, or graphics tablets; scanners; touch screens incorporated into displays; audio input devices, such as voice recognition systems and microphones; and other types of input devices. In general, the use of the term 'input device' is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways of inputting information into the computer system 2000. 用户界面输出设备2028可以包括显示子系统、打印机、传真机或非视觉显示器(诸如音频输出设备)。显示子系统可包括LED显示器、阴极射线管(CRT)、平板设备诸如液晶显示器(LCD)、投影设备或用于产生可见图像的一些其他机构。显示子系统还可提供非视觉显示器，诸如音频输出设备。一般来讲，使用术语“输出设备”旨在包括将信息从计算机系统2000输出到用户或者输出到另一机器或计算机系统的所有可能类型的设备和方式。The user interface output device 2028 may include a display subsystem, a printer, a fax machine, or a non-visual display (such as an audio output device). The display subsystem may include an LED display, a cathode ray tube (CRT), a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), a projection device, or some other mechanism for producing a visible image. The display subsystem may also provide a non-visual display, such as an audio output device. Generally speaking, the use of the term 'output device' is intended to include all possible types of devices and methods for outputting information from the computer system 2000 to a user or to another machine or computer system. 存储子系统2010存储提供本文描述的一些或全部模块和方法的功能的编程结构和数据结构。这些软件模块通常由处理器2030来执行。The storage subsystem 2010 stores programming structures and data structures that provide the functionality of some or all of the modules and methods described herein. These software modules are typically executed by the processor 2030. 处理器2030可以是图形处理单元(GPU)、现场可编程门阵列(FPGA)、专用集成电路(ASIC)和/或粗粒度可重构架构(CGRA)。处理器2030可以由深度学习云平台(诸如GoogleCloud PlatformTM、XilinxTM和CirrascaleTM)托管。处理器2078的示例包括Google的TensorProcessing Unit(TPU)TM、机架安装解决方案(如GX4 Rackmount SeriesTM、GX20RackmountSeriesTM)、NVIDIA DGX-1TM、Microsoft的Stratix V FPGATM、Graphcore的IntelligentProcessor Unit(IPU)TM、Qualcomm的具有Snapdragon processorsTM的Zeroth PlatformTM、NVIDIA的VoltaTM、NVIDIA的DRIVE PXTM、NVIDIA的JETSON TX1/TX2 MODULETM、Intel的NirvanaTM、Movidius VPUTM、Fujitsu DPITM、ARM的DynamicIQTM、IBM TrueNorthTM、具有Testa V100sTM的Lambda GPU服务器，等等。Processor 2030 may be a graphics processing unit (GPU), a field programmable gate array (FPGA), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), and/or a coarse-grained reconfigurable architecture (CGRA). Processor 2030 may be hosted by a deep learning cloud platform such as Google Cloud Platform ™ , Xilinx ™ , and Cirrascale ™ . Examples of processor 2078 include Google's Tensor Processing Unit (TPU) TM , rack-mount solutions (such as GX4 Rackmount Series TM , GX20 Rackmount Series TM ), NVIDIA DGX-1 TM , Microsoft's Stratix V FPGA TM , Graphcore's Intelligent Processor Unit (IPU) TM , Qualcomm's Zeroth Platform TM with Snapdragon processors TM , NVIDIA's Volta TM , NVIDIA's DRIVE PX TM , NVIDIA's JETSON TX1/TX2 MODULE TM , Intel's Nirvana TM , Movidius VPU TM , Fujitsu DPI TM , ARM's DynamicIQ TM , IBM TrueNorth TM , Lambda GPU server with Testa V100s TM , and the like. 在存储子系统2010中使用的存储器子系统2012可以包括多个存储器，包括用于在程序执行期间存储指令和数据的主随机存取存储器(RAM)2014和其中存储固定指令的只读存储器(ROM)2016。文件存储子系统2018可以为程序文件和数据文件提供持久性存储，并且可以包括硬盘驱动器、软盘驱动器，以及相关联的可移动介质、CD-ROM驱动器、光盘驱动器或可移动介质磁盘盒。实现某些具体实施的功能的模块可以由文件存储子系统2018存储在存储子系统2010中，或者存储在处理器可存取的其他机器中。The memory subsystem 2012 used in the storage subsystem 2010 may include multiple memories, including a main random access memory (RAM) 2014 for storing instructions and data during program execution and a read-only memory (ROM) 2016 in which fixed instructions are stored. The file storage subsystem 2018 may provide persistent storage for program files and data files, and may include a hard drive, a floppy disk drive, and associated removable media, a CD-ROM drive, an optical drive, or a removable media disk cartridge. Modules that implement certain specific implementation functions may be stored in the storage subsystem 2010 by the file storage subsystem 2018, or in other machines accessible to the processor. 总线子系统2022提供用于使计算机系统2000的各种部件和子系统按照预期彼此通信的机构。尽管总线子系统2022被示意性地示出为单条总线，但是该总线子系统的替代性具体实施可以使用多条总线。The bus subsystem 2022 provides a mechanism for the various components and subsystems of the computer system 2000 to communicate with each other as intended. Although the bus subsystem 2022 is shown schematically as a single bus, alternative implementations of the bus subsystem may use multiple busses. 计算机系统2000本身可以具有不同类型，包括个人计算机、便携式计算机、工作站、计算机终端、网络计算机、电视机、主机、服务器群、一组广泛分布的松散联网计算机，或者任何其他数据处理系统或用户设备。由于计算机和网络的性质不断变化，对图20中描绘的计算机系统2000的描述仅旨在作为用于展示本发明的优选具体实施的具体示例。计算机系统2000也可能具有许多其他配置，其中的部件相比图20中所描绘的计算机系统更多或更少。The computer system 2000 itself may be of different types, including a personal computer, a portable computer, a workstation, a computer terminal, a network computer, a television, a mainframe, a server farm, a widely distributed group of loosely networked computers, or any other data processing system or user device. Due to the ever-changing nature of computers and networks, the description of the computer system 2000 depicted in FIG. 20 is intended only as a specific example for demonstrating a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The computer system 2000 may also have many other configurations, with more or fewer components than the computer system depicted in FIG. 20. 条款Terms 本发明所公开的技术可以作为系统、方法或制品来实践。具体实施的一个或多个特征可与基本具体实施组合。不互相排斥的具体实施被教导为可组合的。具体实施的一个或多个特征可与其他具体实施组合。本公开周期性地提醒用户这些选项。从一些具体实施中省略重复这些选项的表述不应被视为限制前述部分中教导的组合，这些表述将据此以引用方式并入以下具体实施中的每个具体实施中。The technology disclosed in the present invention can be practiced as a system, method or product. One or more features of a specific implementation can be combined with a basic specific implementation. Specific implementations that are not mutually exclusive are taught to be combinable. One or more features of a specific implementation can be combined with other specific implementations. The present disclosure periodically reminds users of these options. The omission of the expression of repeating these options from some specific implementations should not be regarded as limiting the combination taught in the preceding section, and these expressions will be incorporated into each specific implementation in the following specific implementations by reference. 可以以计算机产品的形式实现所公开的技术的一个或多个具体实施和条款或其元素，该计算机产品包括具有用于执行所指示的方法步骤的计算机可用程序代码的非暂态计算机可读存储介质。此外，所公开的技术的一个或多个具体实施和条款或其元素可以以包括存储器的装置和耦合到存储器的至少一个处理器的形式来实现，并且操作以执行示例性方法步骤。进一步地，在另一方面，可以以用于执行本文描述的方法步骤中的一个或多个方法步骤的装置的形式来实现所公开的技术的一个或多个具体实施和条款或其元素；该装置可包括(i)硬件模块，(ii)在一个或多个硬件处理器上执行的软件模块，或(iii)硬件和软件模块的组合；(i)至(iii)中的任何一个实施本文所阐述的特定技术，并且软件模块被存储在计算机可读存储介质(或多个此类介质)中。One or more specific implementations and clauses of the disclosed technology, or elements thereof, may be implemented in the form of a computer product including a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having a computer-usable program code for performing the indicated method steps. In addition, one or more specific implementations and clauses of the disclosed technology, or elements thereof, may be implemented in the form of a device including a memory and at least one processor coupled to the memory, and operated to perform the exemplary method steps. Further, in another aspect, one or more specific implementations and clauses of the disclosed technology, or elements thereof, may be implemented in the form of a device for performing one or more of the method steps described herein; the device may include (i) a hardware module, (ii) a software module executed on one or more hardware processors, or (iii) a combination of hardware and software modules; any of (i) to (iii) implements the specific technology set forth herein, and the software module is stored in a computer-readable storage medium (or multiple such media). 本部分中描述的条款可组合为特征。为了简洁起见，特征的组合不是单独列举的，并且不与每个基本特征组一起重复。读者将理解在该部分所述的条款中标识的特征可如何容易地与在本申请的其他部分中被标识为具体实施的基本特征集合组合。这些条款并不意味着相互排斥、穷尽或限制；并且所公开的技术不限于这些条款，而是包括在所要求保护的技术及其等同物的范围内的所有可能的组合、修改和变化。The clauses described in this section may be combined into features. For the sake of brevity, combinations of features are not listed separately and are not repeated with each basic feature group. The reader will understand how the features identified in the clauses described in this section can be easily combined with basic feature sets identified as specific implementations in other parts of this application. These clauses are not meant to be mutually exclusive, exhaustive, or limiting; and the disclosed technology is not limited to these clauses, but includes all possible combinations, modifications, and variations within the scope of the claimed technology and their equivalents. 在本部分中描述的条款的其他具体实施可包括存储指令的非暂态计算机可读存储介质，这些指令可由处理器执行以执行本部分中描述的任一条款。在本部分中描述的条款的又一具体实施可包括一种系统，该系统包括存储器和一个或多个处理器，该一个或多个处理器可操作以执行存储在存储器中的指令，从而执行本部分中描述的任一条款。Other specific implementations of the clauses described in this section may include a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that are executable by a processor to perform any of the clauses described in this section. Yet another specific implementation of the clauses described in this section may include a system that includes a memory and one or more processors that are operable to execute instructions stored in the memory to perform any of the clauses described in this section. 本发明公开了以下条款：The present invention discloses the following clauses: 条款集1Article Set 1 1.一种识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体的计算机实现的方法，包括：1. A computer-implemented method for identifying rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels, comprising: 获取一组个体的基因表达水平；Obtain gene expression levels for a group of individuals; 将所述基因表达水平归一化，以及从所述组个体识别具有极端基因表达水平的那些异常值个体，其中所述极端基因表达水平从归一化的所述基因表达水平的尾分位数确定；normalizing the gene expression levels, and identifying those outlier individuals from the group of individuals having extreme gene expression levels, wherein the extreme gene expression levels are determined from tail quantiles of the normalized gene expression levels; 从所述异常值个体的基因序列中选择罕见变体，其中所述罕见变体基于等位基因频率截止值来选择；selecting rare variants from a gene sequence of the outlier individual, wherein the rare variants are selected based on an allele frequency cutoff; 对因果关系模型进行拟合，以确定所述异常值个体中的所述罕见变体与所述极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素；以及fitting a causal relationship model to determine the causal relationship between the rare variant in the outlier individual and the extreme gene expression level while controlling for multiple confounding factors; and 基于所确定的因果关系生成所述罕见变体的因果关系评分，其中特定罕见变体的特定因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起极端基因表达水平的可能性。A causality score for the rare variant is generated based on the determined causality, wherein a specific causality score for a specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes an extreme gene expression level in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 2.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述因果关系评分是概率值(p值)。2. A computer-implemented method according to clause 1, wherein the causality score is a probability value (p-value). 3.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。3. A computer-implemented method according to clause 1, wherein the p-value is determined by a Pearson correlation coefficient. 4.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述因果关系模型是逻辑回归模型、线性回归模型、协方差分析(ANCOVA)模型和/或协方差多变量分析(MANCOVA)模型。4. A computer-implemented method according to clause 1, wherein the causal relationship model is a logistic regression model, a linear regression model, an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model and/or a multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) model. 5.根据条款4所述的计算机实现的方法，其中拟合因果关系模型通过根据由特定罕见变体引起的变体驱动的基因表达水平预测特定染色体中特定基因的特定基因表达水平来确定所述因果关系。5. A computer-implemented method according to claim 4, wherein the fitted causal relationship model determines the causal relationship by predicting the specific gene expression level of a specific gene in a specific chromosome based on the gene expression level driven by the variant caused by the specific rare variant. 6.根据条款5所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述变体驱动的基因表达水平作为变体效应协变量的贡献。6. A computer-implemented method according to clause 5, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the variant-driven gene expression level as a variant effect covariate. 7.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括远端反式表达数量性状基因座(eQTL)效应。7. A computer-implemented method according to clause 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors comprises distal trans-expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) effects. 8.根据条款7所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由其他染色体中的其他基因引起的反式基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述远端反式eQTL效应。8. A computer-implemented method according to clause 7, wherein the fitted causal model controls the distal trans-eQTL effect by predicting the specific gene expression level based on the trans gene expression levels caused by other genes in other chromosomes. 9.根据条款8所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述反式基因表达水平作为反式效应协变量的贡献。9. A computer-implemented method according to clause 8, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the trans gene expression level as a trans effect covariate. 10.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括局部顺式eQTL效应。10. The computer-implemented method of clause 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors comprises local cis-eQTL effects. 11.根据条款10所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由所述特定基因邻域中存在多个常见变体引起的顺式基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述局部顺式eQTL效应。11. A computer-implemented method according to clause 10, wherein the fitted causal model controls the local cis-eQTL effect by predicting the specific gene expression level based on the cis-gene expression level caused by the presence of multiple common variants in the neighborhood of the specific gene. 12.根据条款11所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述邻域由所述特定基因中相对于转录起始位点(TSS)的偏移量来限定。12. A computer-implemented method according to clause 11, wherein the neighborhood is defined by an offset relative to a transcription start site (TSS) in the specific gene. 13.根据条款11所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述顺式基因表达水平作为顺式效应协变量的贡献。13. A computer-implemented method according to clause 11, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the cis gene expression level as a cis-effect covariate. 14.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括群体结构和祖先效应。14. A computer-implemented method according to clause 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors comprises population structure and ancestral effects. 15.根据条款14所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述群体结构和祖先效应由一种或多种基于基因型的主成分(gPC)表示。15. A computer-implemented method according to clause 14, wherein the population structure and ancestry effects are represented by one or more genotype-based principal components (gPCs). 16.根据条款15所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由所述gPC引起的gPC基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述群体结构和祖先效应。16. A computer-implemented method according to clause 15, wherein the fitted causal model controls for the population structure and ancestral effects by predicting the specific gene expression level based on the gPC gene expression level caused by the gPC. 17.根据条款16所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述gPC基因表达水平作为群体结构和祖先效应协变量的贡献。17. A computer-implemented method according to clause 16, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the gPC gene expression levels as covariates of population structure and ancestral effects. 18.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括表达式残差(PEER)效应的概率估计。18. The computer-implemented method of clause 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors comprises a probability estimate of expression residual (PEER) effect. 19.根据条款18所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由所述PEER引起的PEER基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述PEER效应。19. The computer-implemented method of clause 18, wherein the fitted causal model controls the PEER effect by predicting the specific gene expression level based on the PEER gene expression level caused by the PEER. 20.根据条款19所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述PEER基因表达水平作为PEER效应协变量的贡献。20. The computer-implemented method of clause 19, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the PEER gene expression level as a PEER effect covariate. 21.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括环境效应。21. The computer-implemented method of clause 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors includes environmental effects. 22.根据条款21所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由所述环境效应引起的环境基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述环境效应。22. A computer-implemented method according to clause 21, wherein the fitted causal model controls for the environmental effect by predicting the specific gene expression level based on the environmental gene expression level caused by the environmental effect. 23.根据条款22所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述环境基因表达水平作为环境效应协变量的贡献。23. A computer-implemented method according to clause 22, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the environmental gene expression level as an environmental effect covariate. 23.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括性别效应、批次效应、基因分型平台效应和文库构建方案效应。23. A computer-implemented method according to clause 1, wherein the multiple confounding factors include gender effect, batch effect, genotyping platform effect and library construction protocol effect. 24.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述极端基因表达水平包括基因表达过度和基因表达不足。24. A computer-implemented method according to clause 1, wherein the extreme gene expression levels include gene overexpression and gene underexpression. 25.根据条款24所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括确定所述罕见变体与所述基因表达过度之间的所述因果关系，同时控制所述多种混杂因素。25. The computer-implemented method of clause 24, further comprising determining the causal relationship between the rare variant and the overexpression of the gene while controlling for the plurality of confounding factors. 26.根据条款25所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括生成所述罕见变体的过度因果关系评分，其中所述特定罕见变体的特定过度因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起基因表达过度的可能性。26. The computer-implemented method according to clause 25 further includes generating an excess causality score for the rare variant, wherein the specific excess causality score for the specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes overexpression of a gene in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 27.根据条款26所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述过度因果关系评分是过度概率值(过度p值)。27. A computer-implemented method according to clause 26, wherein the excess causality score is an excess probability value (excess p-value). 28.根据条款27所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述过度p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。28. A computer-implemented method according to clause 27, wherein the excess p-value is determined by a Pearson correlation coefficient. 29.根据条款27所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述过度p值指定所述罕见变体在相对于基因集合中的其他基因原本具有较低基因表达的基因中增加基因表达的在统计上无混杂的可能性。29. A computer-implemented method according to clause 27, wherein the excess p-value specifies a statistically unconfounded likelihood that the rare variant increases gene expression in a gene that otherwise has lower gene expression relative to other genes in the gene set. 30.根据条款24所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括确定所述罕见变体与所述基因表达不足之间的所述因果关系，同时控制所述多种混杂因素。30. The computer-implemented method of clause 24, further comprising determining the causal relationship between the rare variant and the underexpression of the gene while controlling for the plurality of confounding factors. 31.根据条款30所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括生成所述罕见变体的不足因果关系评分，其中所述特定罕见变体的特定不足因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起基因表达不足的可能性。31. The computer-implemented method according to clause 30 further includes generating a deficiency causality score for the rare variant, wherein the specific deficiency causality score for the specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes insufficient gene expression in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 32.根据条款31所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述不足因果关系评分是不足概率值(不足p值)。32. The computer-implemented method of clause 31, wherein the deficiency causality score is a deficiency probability value (deficiency p-value). 33.根据条款32所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述不足p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。33. A computer-implemented method according to clause 32, wherein the deficiency p-value is determined by a Pearson correlation coefficient. 34.根据条款32所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述不足p值指定所述罕见变体在相对于基因集合中的其他基因原本具有较高基因表达的基因中降低基因表达的在统计上无混杂的可能性。34. A computer-implemented method according to clause 32, wherein the insufficient p-value specifies a statistically unconfounded likelihood that the rare variant reduces gene expression in a gene that otherwise has higher gene expression relative to other genes in the gene set. 35.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述罕见变体是非编码变体。35. A computer-implemented method according to clause 1, wherein the rare variant is a non-coding variant. 36.根据条款17所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述非编码变体包括5'非翻译区(UTR)变体、3'UTR变体、增强子变体和启动子变体。36. A computer-implemented method according to clause 17, wherein the non-coding variants include 5' untranslated region (UTR) variants, 3' UTR variants, enhancer variants and promoter variants. 37.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述基因表达水平被进一步分层为多种组织的组织特异性基因表达水平。37. A computer-implemented method according to clause 1, wherein the gene expression levels are further stratified into tissue-specific gene expression levels of multiple tissues. 38.根据条款37所述的计算机实现的方法，其中使用分位数归一化来将每个组织中的每个基因的所述基因表达水平归一化。38. A computer-implemented method according to clause 37, wherein quantile normalization is used to normalize the gene expression level of each gene in each tissue. 39.根据条款38所述的计算机实现的方法，其中针对每个组织单独拟合所述因果关系模型。39. The computer-implemented method of clause 38, wherein the causal model is fit separately for each tissue. 40.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中使用分层来拟合所述因果关系模型。40. The computer-implemented method of clause 1, wherein stratification is used to fit the causal model. 41.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括基于所述因果关系评分生成所述罕见变体的排名。41. The computer-implemented method of clause 1 , further comprising generating a ranking of the rare variants based on the causality score. 42.根据条款26所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括基于所述过度因果关系评分生成所述罕见变体的排名。42. The computer-implemented method of clause 26, further comprising generating a ranking of the rare variants based on the excess causality score. 43.根据条款31所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括基于所述不足因果关系评分生成所述罕见变体的排名。43. The computer-implemented method of clause 31 , further comprising generating a ranking of the rare variants based on the insufficient causality score. 44.根据条款1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述罕见变体是单现变体。44. A computer-implemented method as described in clause 1, wherein the rare variant is a single-occurring variant. 45.根据条款44所述的计算机实现的方法，其中单现变体出现在来自所述异常值个体的唯一一个异常值个体中。45. A computer-implemented method according to clause 44, wherein the single-occurring variant occurs in only one outlier individual from among the outlier individuals. 46.一种系统，包括一个或多个耦接到存储器的处理器，所述存储器装载有计算机指令以识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体，所述指令当在所述处理器上执行时实现包括以下各项的动作：46. A system comprising one or more processors coupled to a memory loaded with computer instructions to identify rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels, the instructions when executed on the processors performing actions comprising: 获取一组个体的基因表达水平；Obtain gene expression levels for a group of individuals; 将所述基因表达水平归一化，以及从所述组个体识别具有极端基因表达水平的那些异常值个体，其中所述极端基因表达水平从归一化的所述基因表达水平的尾分位数确定；normalizing the gene expression levels, and identifying those outlier individuals from the group of individuals having extreme gene expression levels, wherein the extreme gene expression levels are determined from tail quantiles of the normalized gene expression levels; 从所述异常值个体的基因序列中选择罕见变体，其中所述罕见变体基于等位基因频率截止值来选择；selecting rare variants from a gene sequence of the outlier individual, wherein the rare variants are selected based on an allele frequency cutoff; 对因果关系模型进行拟合，以确定所述异常值个体中的所述罕见变体与所述极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素；以及fitting a causal relationship model to determine the causal relationship between the rare variant in the outlier individual and the extreme gene expression level while controlling for multiple confounding factors; and 基于所确定的因果关系生成所述罕见变体的因果关系评分，其中特定罕见变体的特定因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起极端基因表达水平的可能性。A causality score for the rare variant is generated based on the determined causality, wherein a specific causality score for a specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes an extreme gene expression level in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 47.根据条款46所述的系统，进一步实现包括执行条款2至45的动作。47. The system according to clause 46, further implementing the actions including executing clauses 2 to 45. 48.一种印有计算机程序指令的非暂态计算机可读存储介质，用于识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体，所述指令当在处理器上执行时实现一种方法，所述方法包括：48. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having printed thereon computer program instructions for identifying rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels, said instructions when executed on a processor implementing a method comprising: 获取一组个体的基因表达水平；Obtain gene expression levels for a group of individuals; 将所述基因表达水平归一化，以及从所述组个体识别具有极端基因表达水平的那些异常值个体，其中所述极端基因表达水平从归一化的所述基因表达水平的尾分位数确定；normalizing the gene expression levels, and identifying those outlier individuals from the group of individuals having extreme gene expression levels, wherein the extreme gene expression levels are determined from tail quantiles of the normalized gene expression levels; 从所述异常值个体的基因序列中选择罕见变体，其中所述罕见变体基于等位基因频率截止值来选择；selecting rare variants from a gene sequence of the outlier individual, wherein the rare variants are selected based on an allele frequency cutoff; 对因果关系模型进行拟合，以确定所述异常值个体中的所述罕见变体与所述极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素；以及fitting a causal relationship model to determine the causal relationship between the rare variant in the outlier individual and the extreme gene expression level while controlling for multiple confounding factors; and 基于所确定的因果关系生成所述罕见变体的因果关系评分，其中特定罕见变体的特定因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起极端基因表达水平的可能性。A causality score for the rare variant is generated based on the determined causality, wherein a specific causality score for a specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes an extreme gene expression level in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 49.根据条款46所述的非暂态计算机可读存储介质，实现所述方法还包括执行条款2至45。49. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of clause 46, wherein implementing the method further comprises executing clauses 2 to 45. 条款集2Article Set 2 1.一种以每碱基分辨率检测基因表达变化的基于人工智能的系统，包括：1. An artificial intelligence-based system for detecting changes in gene expression at per-base resolution, comprising: 输入生成逻辑部件，其访问序列数据库并生成输入碱基序列，其中所述输入碱基序列包括靶碱基序列，并且其中所述靶碱基序列侧接具有下游背景碱基的右端碱基序列，以及具有上游背景碱基的左端碱基序列；an input generation logic component that accesses a sequence database and generates an input base sequence, wherein the input base sequence includes a target base sequence, and wherein the target base sequence is flanked by a right-end base sequence having downstream background bases, and a left-end base sequence having upstream background bases; 染色质模型，其处理所述输入碱基序列并生成所述输入碱基序列的替代性表示；以及a chromatin model that processes the input base sequence and generates an alternative representation of the input base sequence; and 染色质输出生成逻辑部件，其处理所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示，并针对所述靶碱基序列中的相应靶碱基生成相应的每碱基染色质输出的输出序列，a chromatin output generation logic component that processes the alternative representations of the input base sequence and generates an output sequence of corresponding per-base chromatin outputs for corresponding target bases in the target base sequence, 其中所述输出序列中对于所述靶碱基序列中给定位置处的给定靶碱基，给定的每碱基染色质输出指定所述给定靶碱基跨多个物种的进化保守性的量度。Wherein in the output sequence, for a given target base at a given position in the target base sequence, a given per-base chromatin output specifies a measure of evolutionary conservation of the given target base across multiple species. 2.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述给定的每碱基染色质输出进一步指定所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基的转录起始量度。2. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the given per-base chromatin output further specifies a transcription start measure for the given target base at the given position. 3.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述进化保守性的量度是系统发育P值(phyloP)评分，其指定相对于神经替代零模型的偏差，以便将所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基的替代率降低检测为保守，并且将所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基的替代率增加检测为加速。3. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the measure of evolutionary conservation is a phylogenetic P-value (phyloP) score that specifies a deviation from a neural substitution null model so that a decrease in the substitution rate of the given target base at the given position is detected as conservation and an increase in the substitution rate of the given target base at the given position is detected as acceleration. 4.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述进化保守性的量度是phastCons评分，其指定在所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基具有保守状态或非保守状态的后验概率。4. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the measure of evolutionary conservation is a phastCons score that specifies the posterior probability that the given target base at the given position has a conserved state or a non-conserved state. 5.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述进化保守性的量度是基因组进化速率分析(GERP)评分，其指定所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基的替代数目跨多个物种的减少。5. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the measure of evolutionary conservation is a genome evolutionary rate analysis (GERP) score that specifies a reduction in the number of substitutions for the given target base at the given position across multiple species. 6.根据条款2所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述转录起始的量度是帽分析基因表达(CAGE)评分，其指定所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基的转录起始频率。6. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 2, wherein the measure of transcription initiation is a Cap Analysis Gene Expression (CAGE) score that specifies the frequency of transcription initiation of the given target base at the given position. 7.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述给定的每碱基染色质输出进一步指定所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基的混杂因素信号水平。7. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the given per-base chromatin output further specifies the confounding factor signal level of the given target base at the given position. 8.根据条款7所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述混杂因素信号水平指定DNA酶I-超敏感位点(DHS)。8. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 7, wherein the confounding factor signal level specifies a DNase I-hypersensitive site (DHS). 9.根据条款7所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述混杂因素信号水平指定转录因子(TF)结合。9. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 7, wherein the confounding factor signal level specifies transcription factor (TF) binding. 10.根据条款7所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述混杂因素信号水平指定组蛋白修饰(HM)标记。10. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 7, wherein the confounding factor signal level specifies a histone modification (HM) mark. 11.根据条款7所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述混杂因素信号水平指定DNA甲基化标记。11. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 7, wherein the confounding factor signal level specifies a DNA methylation marker. 12.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，被进一步配置为包括：12. The artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 1, further configured to include: 基因表达模型，其处理所述输出序列并生成所述输出序列的替代性表示；以及a gene expression model that processes the output sequence and generates an alternative representation of the output sequence; and 基因表达模型输出生成逻辑部件，其处理所述输出序列的所述替代性表示，并针对所述靶碱基序列中的所述相应靶碱基生成相应的每碱基基因表达输出的基因表达输出序列，a gene expression model output generation logic component that processes the alternative representations of the output sequence and generates a gene expression output sequence of corresponding per-base gene expression outputs for the corresponding target bases in the target base sequence, 其中所述基因表达输出序列中对于所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基，给定的每碱基基因表达输出指定所述给定靶碱基在所述给定位置处的基因表达水平的量度。Wherein for the given target base at the given position in the gene expression output sequence, the given per-base gene expression output specifies a measure of the gene expression level of the given target base at the given position. 13.根据条款12所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述基因表达水平以每碱基度量诸如CAGE转录起始位点(CTSS)来测量。13. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 12, wherein the gene expression level is measured as a per-base metric such as CAGE transcription start site (CTSS). 14.根据条款12所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述基因表达水平以每基因度量诸如每百万转录物(TPM)或每千碱基转录物的读数(RPKM)来测量。14. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 12, wherein the gene expression level is measured in a per-gene metric such as transcripts per million (TPM) or reads per kilobase of transcript (RPKM). 15.根据条款12所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述基因表达水平以每基因度量诸如每千碱基百万片段(FPKM)来测量。15. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 12, wherein the gene expression level is measured in a per-gene metric such as fragments per kilobase million (FPKM). 16.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，被进一步配置为包括变体分类逻辑部件。16. The artificial intelligence based system of clause 1, further configured to include a variant classification logic component. 17.根据条款16所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述变体分类逻辑部件被进一步配置为包括参考输入生成逻辑部件，所述参考输入生成逻辑部件访问所述序列数据库并生成参考碱基序列，其中所述参考碱基序列包括参考靶碱基序列，其中所述参考靶碱基序列包括在分析中的位置处的参考碱基，并且其中所述参考碱基侧接具有下游背景碱基的右端碱基序列，以及具有上游背景碱基的左端碱基序列。17. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 16, wherein the variant classification logic component is further configured to include a reference input generation logic component, which accesses the sequence database and generates a reference base sequence, wherein the reference base sequence includes a reference target base sequence, wherein the reference target base sequence includes a reference base at a position under analysis, and wherein the reference base is flanked by a right-end base sequence having downstream background bases, and a left-end base sequence having upstream background bases. 18.根据条款17所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述变体分类逻辑部件被进一步配置为包括另选输入生成逻辑部件，所述另选输入生成逻辑部件访问所述序列数据库并生成另选碱基序列，其中所述另选碱基序列包括另选靶碱基序列，其中所述另选靶碱基序列包括在所述分析中的位置处的另选碱基，并且其中所述另选碱基侧接具有所述下游背景碱基的所述右端碱基序列，以及具有所述上游背景碱基的所述左端碱基序列。18. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 17, wherein the variant classification logic component is further configured to include an alternative input generation logic component, which accesses the sequence database and generates an alternative base sequence, wherein the alternative base sequence includes an alternative target base sequence, wherein the alternative target base sequence includes an alternative base at a position in the analysis, and wherein the alternative base is flanked by the right-end base sequence having the downstream background base, and the left-end base sequence having the upstream background base. 19.根据条款17所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述变体分类逻辑部件被进一步配置为包括参考处理逻辑部件，所述参考处理逻辑部件使得所述染色质模型处理所述参考碱基序列并生成所述参考碱基序列的替代性表示，而且还使得所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件处理所述参考碱基序列的所述替代性表示并生成所述参考靶碱基序列中的相应参考靶碱基的相应每碱基参考染色质输出的参考输出序列。19. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 17, wherein the variant classification logic component is further configured to include a reference processing logic component, which enables the chromatin model to process the reference base sequence and generate an alternative representation of the reference base sequence, and also enables the chromatin output generation logic component to process the alternative representation of the reference base sequence and generate a reference output sequence of corresponding per-base reference chromatin outputs for the corresponding reference target bases in the reference target base sequence. 其中所述参考输出序列中对于所述参考靶碱基序列中给定位置处的给定参考靶碱基，给定的每碱基参考染色质输出指定所述给定参考靶碱基跨所述多个物种的进化保守性的量度。wherein in the reference output sequence, for a given reference target base at a given position in the reference target base sequence, a given per-base reference chromatin output specifies a measure of evolutionary conservation of the given reference target base across the plurality of species. 20.根据条款18所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述变体分类逻辑部件被进一步配置为包括另选处理逻辑部件，所述另选处理逻辑部件使得所述染色质模型处理所述另选碱基序列并生成所述另选碱基序列的替代性表示，而且还使得所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件处理所述另选碱基序列的所述替代性表示并生成所述另选靶碱基序列中的相应另选靶碱基的相应每碱基另选染色质输出的另选输出序列，20. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 18, wherein the variant classification logic component is further configured to include an alternative processing logic component, which causes the chromatin model to process the alternative base sequence and generate an alternative representation of the alternative base sequence, and also causes the chromatin output generation logic component to process the alternative representation of the alternative base sequence and generate an alternative output sequence of corresponding per-base alternative chromatin outputs for corresponding alternative target bases in the alternative target base sequence, 其中所述另选输出序列中对于所述另选靶碱基序列中给定位置处的给定另选靶碱基，给定的每碱基另选染色质输出指定所述给定另选靶碱基跨所述多个物种的进化保守性的量度。Wherein in the alternative output sequence, for a given alternative target base at a given position in the alternative target base sequence, a given per-base alternative chromatin output specifies a measure of evolutionary conservation of the given alternative target base across the plurality of species. 21.根据条款20所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述变体分类逻辑部件被进一步配置为包括致病性预测逻辑部件，所述致病性预测逻辑部件按位置比较所述参考输出序列和所述另选输出序列，然后生成具有所述参考输出序列和所述另选输出序列中的位置的按位置序列差值的增量序列。21. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 20, wherein the variant classification logic component is further configured to include a pathogenicity prediction logic component, which compares the reference output sequence and the alternative output sequence by position and then generates an incremental sequence having position-by-position sequence differences between the positions in the reference output sequence and the alternative output sequence. 22.根据条款21所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述致病性预测逻辑部件被进一步配置为根据所述增量序列为所述另选碱基生成致病性预测。22. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 21, wherein the pathogenicity prediction logic component is further configured to generate a pathogenicity prediction for the alternative base based on the incremental sequence. 23.根据条款21所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述致病性预测逻辑部件被进一步配置为将所述按位置的序列差值累积成累积的序列值，然后根据所述累积的序列值生成所述另选碱基的所述致病性预测。23. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 21, wherein the pathogenicity prediction logic component is further configured to accumulate the position-based sequence differences into cumulative sequence values, and then generate the pathogenicity prediction of the alternative base based on the cumulative sequence values. 24.根据条款23所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述累积的序列值是所述按位置的序列差值的平均值或最大值。24. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 23, wherein the accumulated sequence value is an average or maximum value of the position-by-position sequence differences. 25.根据条款23所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述累积的序列值是所述按位置的序列差值的总和。25. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 23, wherein the accumulated sequence value is the sum of the position-by-position sequence differences. 26.根据条款21所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述致病性预测逻辑部件被进一步配置为按位置比较所述参考输出序列和所述另选输出序列的相应部分，然后生成具有所述相应部分中的位置的按位置子序列差值的增量子序列。26. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 21, wherein the pathogenicity prediction logic component is further configured to compare the reference output sequence and the corresponding portions of the alternative output sequence by position, and then generate incremental subsequences having position-by-position subsequence differences of the positions in the corresponding portions. 27.根据条款26所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述相应部分跨越所述分析中的位置周围的右端侧翼位置和左端侧翼位置。27. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 26, wherein the corresponding portion spans a right-end flanking position and a left-end flanking position around the position under analysis. 28.根据条款26所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述致病性预测逻辑部件被进一步配置为根据所述增量子序列为所述另选碱基生成致病性预测。28. The artificial intelligence-based system of clause 26, wherein the pathogenicity prediction logic component is further configured to generate a pathogenicity prediction for the alternative base based on the incremental subsequence. 29.根据条款26所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述致病性预测逻辑部件被进一步配置为将所述按位置的子序列差值累积成累积的子序列值，然后根据所述累积的子序列值生成所述另选碱基的所述致病性预测。29. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 26, wherein the pathogenicity prediction logic component is further configured to accumulate the subsequence differences by position into cumulative subsequence values, and then generate the pathogenicity prediction of the alternative base based on the cumulative subsequence values. 30.根据条款29所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述累积的子序列值是所述按位置的子序列差值的平均值。30. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 29, wherein the accumulated subsequence value is an average of the position-wise subsequence differences. 31.根据条款29所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述累积的子序列值是所述按位置的子序列差值的总和或最大值。31. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 29, wherein the accumulated subsequence value is the sum or maximum of the position-wise subsequence differences. 32.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述靶碱基序列是基因的编码区。32. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 1, wherein the target base sequence is a coding region of a gene. 33.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述靶碱基序列是基因的非编码区。33. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 1, wherein the target base sequence is a non-coding region of a gene. 34.根据条款33所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述非编码区跨越转录起始位点、5'非翻译区(UTR)、3'UTR、增强子和启动子。34. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 33, wherein the non-coding region spans the transcription start site, 5' untranslated region (UTR), 3' UTR, enhancer and promoter. 35.根据条款18所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述另选碱基是在异常值个体队列之中的罕见变体异常值个体，35. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 18, wherein the alternative base is a rare variant outlier individual among an outlier individual cohort, 其中所述异常值个体队列中的异常值个体表现出极端基因表达水平。The outlier individuals in the outlier individual cohort exhibit extreme gene expression levels. 36.根据条款35所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中从归一化基因表达水平的尾分位数确定所述极端基因表达水平。36. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 35, wherein the extreme gene expression levels are determined from the tail quantiles of the normalized gene expression levels. 37.根据条款36所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述极端基因表达水平包括基因表达过度和基因表达不足。37. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 36, wherein the extreme gene expression levels include gene overexpression and gene underexpression. 38.根据条款35所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述罕见变体是编码变体。38. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 35, wherein the rare variant is a coding variant. 39.根据条款35所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述罕见变体是非编码变体。39. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 35, wherein the rare variant is a non-coding variant. 40.根据条款39所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述非编码变体是启动子变体。40. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 39, wherein the non-coding variant is a promoter variant. 41.根据条款39所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述非编码变体是增强子变体。41. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 39, wherein the non-coding variant is an enhancer variant. 42.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述染色质模型具有第一组权重，其中所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件具有第二组权重。42. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the chromatin model has a first set of weights and wherein the chromatin output generation logic component has a second set of weights. 43.根据条款42所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在训练期间，从零开始训练所述染色质模型的所述第一组权重，以处理所述输入碱基序列并生成所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示，43. The artificial intelligence-based system of clause 42, wherein during training, the first set of weights of the chromatin model is trained from scratch to process the input base sequence and generate the alternative representation of the input base sequence, 其中所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件的所述第二组权重与所述染色质模型的所述第一组权重一起从零开始进行端到端训练，以处理所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示并生成所述输出序列。The second set of weights of the chromatin output generation logic component are trained end-to-end from scratch together with the first set of weights of the chromatin model to process the alternative representation of the input base sequence and generate the output sequence. 44.根据条款63所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在推断期间，所述染色质模型使用受过训练的第一组权重，44. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 63, wherein, during inference, the chromatin model uses a trained first set of weights, 其中，在所述推断期间，所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件使用受过训练的第二组权重。Wherein, during the inference, the chromatin output generation logic component uses the trained second set of weights. 45.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述基因表达模型具有第三组权重，45. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 1, wherein the gene expression model has a third set of weights, 其中所述基因表达输出生成逻辑部件具有第四组权重。The gene expression output generation logic component has a fourth set of weights. 46.根据条款45所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中从零开始训练所述基因表达模型的所述第三组权重，以处理所述输出序列并生成所述输出序列的所述替代性表示，46. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 45, wherein the third set of weights of the gene expression model is trained from scratch to process the output sequence and generate the alternative representation of the output sequence, 其中所述基因表达输出生成逻辑部件的所述第四组权重与所述基因表达模型的所述第三组权重一起从零开始进行端到端训练，以处理所述输出序列的所述替代性表示并生成所述基因表达输出序列。The fourth set of weights of the gene expression output generation logic component is trained end-to-end from scratch together with the third set of weights of the gene expression model to process the alternative representation of the output sequence and generate the gene expression output sequence. 47.根据条款46所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在推断期间，所述基因表达模型使用受过训练的第三组权重，47. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 46, wherein, during inference, the gene expression model uses a trained third set of weights, 其中，在所述推断期间，所述基因表达输出生成逻辑部件使用受过训练的第四组权重。Wherein, during the inference, the gene expression output generation logic component uses a trained fourth set of weights. 48.根据条款45所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在训练期间，首先训练所述染色质模型的所述第一组权重以处理所述输入碱基序列并生成所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示，然后重新训练所述第一组权重，作为所述基因表达模型的所述第三组权重的替代物，以处理所述输出序列并生成所述输出序列的所述替代性表示，其中所述基因表达输出生成逻辑部件的所述第四组权重与所述基因表达模型中替换的受过训练的第一组权重一起从零开始进行端到端训练，以处理由所述基因表达模型中替换的受过训练的第一组权重生成的所述输出序列的所述替代性表示，并生成所述基因表达输出序列。48. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 45, wherein, during training, the first set of weights of the chromatin model is first trained to process the input base sequence and generate the alternative representation of the input base sequence, and then the first set of weights is retrained as a substitute for the third set of weights of the gene expression model to process the output sequence and generate the alternative representation of the output sequence, wherein the fourth set of weights of the gene expression output generation logic component is trained end-to-end from scratch together with the replaced trained first set of weights in the gene expression model to process the alternative representation of the output sequence generated by the replaced trained first set of weights in the gene expression model and generate the gene expression output sequence. 49.根据条款48所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在推断期间，所述染色质模型使用重新受过训练的第一组权重，49. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 48, wherein, during inference, the chromatin model uses the retrained first set of weights, 其中，在所述推断期间，所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件使用受过训练的第二组权重，wherein, during the inference, the chromatin output generation logic uses a trained second set of weights, 其中，在所述推断期间，所述基因表达模型使用重新受过训练的第一组权重，并且wherein, during the inference, the gene expression model uses the retrained first set of weights, and 其中，在所述推断期间，所述基因表达输出生成逻辑部件使用受过训练的第四组权重。Wherein, during the inference, the gene expression output generation logic component uses a trained fourth set of weights. 50.根据条款19所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在训练期间，首先从零开始训练所述染色质模型的所述第一组权重，以处理所述输入碱基序列并生成所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示，50. The artificial intelligence-based system of clause 19, wherein during training, the first set of weights of the chromatin model is first trained from scratch to process the input base sequence and generate the alternative representation of the input base sequence, 其中，在所述训练期间，所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件的所述第二组权重首先与所述染色质模型的所述第一组权重一起从零开始进行端到端训练，以处理所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示并生成所述输出序列，wherein during the training, the second set of weights of the chromatin output generation logic component is first trained end-to-end from scratch together with the first set of weights of the chromatin model to process the alternative representation of the input base sequence and generate the output sequence, 其中，在所述训练期间，然后重新训练所述染色质模型的受过训练的第一组权重，以处理所述参考碱基序列并生成所述参考碱基序列的所述替代性表示，以及所述另选碱基序列并生成所述另选碱基序列的所述替代性表示，并且wherein, during the training, the trained first set of weights of the chromatin model is then retrained to process the reference base sequence and generate the alternative representation of the reference base sequence, and the alternative base sequence and generate the alternative representation of the alternative base sequence, and 其中，在所述训练期间，所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件的受过训练的第二组权重然后与所述染色质模型的受过训练的第一组权重一起重新进行端到端训练，以处理所述参考碱基序列的所述替代性表示并生成所述参考输出序列，以及所述另选碱基序列的所述替代性表示并生成所述另选输出序列。Wherein, during the training, the trained second set of weights of the chromatin output generation logic component is then re-trained end-to-end together with the trained first set of weights of the chromatin model to process the alternative representation of the reference base sequence and generate the reference output sequence, and the alternative representation of the alternative base sequence and generate the alternative output sequence. 51.根据条款50所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在推断期间，所述染色质模型使用重新受过训练的第一组权重，51. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 50, wherein, during inference, the chromatin model uses the retrained first set of weights, 其中，在所述推断期间，所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件使用重新受过训练的第二组权重。wherein, during the inference, the chromatin output generation logic component uses the retrained second set of weights. 52.根据条款21所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述致病性预测逻辑部件具有第五组权重。52. The artificial intelligence-based system of clause 21, wherein the pathogenicity prediction logic component has a fifth set of weights. 53.根据条款52所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在训练期间，首先从零开始训练所述染色质模型的所述第一组权重，以处理所述输入碱基序列并生成所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示，53. The artificial intelligence-based system of clause 52, wherein during training, the first set of weights of the chromatin model is first trained from scratch to process the input base sequence and generate the alternative representation of the input base sequence, 其中，在所述训练期间，所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件的所述第二组权重首先与所述染色质模型的所述第一组权重一起从零开始进行端到端训练，以处理所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示并生成所述输出序列，并且wherein, during the training, the second set of weights of the chromatin output generation logic component is first trained end-to-end from scratch together with the first set of weights of the chromatin model to process the alternative representation of the input base sequence and generate the output sequence, and 其中，在所述训练期间，所述染色质模型的受过训练的第一组权重和所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件的受过训练的第二组权重然后重新进行端到端训练，以生成所述另选碱基的所述致病性预测。Wherein, during the training, the trained first set of weights of the chromatin model and the trained second set of weights of the chromatin output generation logic component are then retrained end-to-end to generate the pathogenicity prediction of the alternative base. 54.根据条款53所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在推断期间，所述染色质模型使用重新受过训练的第一组权重，54. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 53, wherein, during inference, the chromatin model uses the retrained first set of weights, 其中，在所述推断期间，所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件使用重新受过训练的第二组权重，并且wherein, during the inference, the chromatin output generation logic uses the retrained second set of weights, and 其中，在所述推断期间，所述致病性预测逻辑部件使用受过训练的第五组权重。Wherein, during the inference, the pathogenicity prediction logic component uses a trained fifth set of weights. 55.根据条款19所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述参考输出序列中对于所述参考靶碱基序列中所述给定位置处的所述给定参考靶碱基，所述给定的每碱基参考染色质输出指定所述给定位置处的所述给定参考靶碱基的混杂因素信号水平。55. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 19, wherein in the reference output sequence, for the given reference target base at the given position in the reference target base sequence, the given per-base reference chromatin output specifies the confounding factor signal level of the given reference target base at the given position. 56.根据条款20所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述另选输出序列中对于所述另选靶碱基序列中所述给定位置处的所述给定另选靶碱基，所述给定的每碱基另选染色质输出指定所述给定位置处的所述给定另选靶碱基的混杂因素信号水平。56. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 20, wherein in the alternative output sequence, for the given alternative target base at the given position in the alternative target base sequence, the given per-base alternative chromatin output specifies the confounding factor signal level of the given alternative target base at the given position. 57.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在训练期间，所述染色质模型和所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件首先从零开始进行端到端训练，以将对输入碱基序列的分析转化成按碱基的进化保守性染色质序列，然后重新进行端到端训练，以将对输入碱基序列的分析转化成按碱基的转录起始频率染色质序列。57. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein, during training, the chromatin model and the chromatin output generation logic component are first trained end-to-end from scratch to convert an analysis of an input base sequence into a base-by-base evolutionarily conserved chromatin sequence, and then retrained end-to-end to convert an analysis of an input base sequence into a base-by-base transcription start frequency chromatin sequence. 58.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在训练期间，所述染色质模型和所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件首先从零开始进行端到端训练，以将对输入碱基序列的分析转化成按碱基的混杂因素信号水平染色质序列，然后重新进行端到端训练，以将对输入碱基序列的分析转化成按碱基的进化保守性染色质序列。58. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein, during training, the chromatin model and the chromatin output generation logic component are first trained end-to-end from scratch to convert the analysis of the input base sequence into a base-by-base confounding factor signal level chromatin sequence, and then re-trained end-to-end to convert the analysis of the input base sequence into a base-by-base evolutionarily conserved chromatin sequence. 59.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在训练期间，所述染色质模型和所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件首先从零开始进行端到端训练，以将对输入碱基序列的分析转化成按碱基的混杂因素信号水平染色质序列，然后重新进行端到端训练，以将对输入碱基序列的分析转化成按碱基的转录起始频率染色质序列。59. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein, during training, the chromatin model and the chromatin output generation logic component are first trained end-to-end from scratch to convert the analysis of the input base sequence into a base-by-base confounding factor signal level chromatin sequence, and then re-trained end-to-end to convert the analysis of the input base sequence into a base-by-base transcription start frequency chromatin sequence. 60.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，在训练期间，所述染色质模型和所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件首先从零开始进行端到端训练，以将对输入碱基序列的分析转化成按碱基的混杂因素信号水平染色质序列，然后重新进行端到端训练，以将对输入碱基序列的分析转化成按碱基的进化保守性染色质序列和按碱基的转录起始频率染色质序列。60. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein, during training, the chromatin model and the chromatin output generation logic component are first trained end-to-end from scratch to convert the analysis of the input base sequence into a base-by-base confounding factor signal level chromatin sequence, and then re-trained end-to-end to convert the analysis of the input base sequence into a base-by-base evolutionary conserved chromatin sequence and a base-by-base transcription start frequency chromatin sequence. 61.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，被进一步配置为包括训练输入碱基序列的第一训练集，所述第一训练集包括由多种混杂因素效应混杂的变体。61. The artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 1 is further configured to include a first training set of training input base sequences, wherein the first training set includes variants confounded by the effects of multiple confounding factors. 62.根据条款61所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述多种混杂因素效应中的混杂因素效应包括染色体间效应、基因内效应、群体结构和祖先效应、表达式残差(PEER)效应的概率估计、环境效应、性别效应、批次效应、基因分型平台效应和/或文库构建方案效应。62. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 61, wherein the multiple confounder effects include inter-chromosomal effects, intragenic effects, population structure and ancestral effects, probability estimates of expression residual (PEER) effects, environmental effects, sex effects, batch effects, genotyping platform effects and/or library construction protocol effects. 63.根据条款61所述的基于人工智能的系统，被进一步配置为包括训练输入碱基序列的第二训练集，所述第二训练集包括未由所述多种混杂因素效应混杂的变体。63. The artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 61 is further configured to include a second training set of training input base sequences, wherein the second training set includes variants that are not confounded by the effects of the multiple confounding factors. 64.根据条款63所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集中的所述变体被可靠地确定为改变基因表达并引起极端基因表达水平。64. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 63, wherein the variants in the second training set are reliably determined to alter gene expression and cause extreme gene expression levels. 65.根据条款64所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集中的所述变体包括增加基因表达水平的引起表达过度的变体。65. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 64, wherein the variants in the second training set include overexpression-causing variants that increase gene expression levels. 66.根据条款64所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集中的所述变体包括降低基因表达水平的引起表达不足的变体。66. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 64, wherein the variants in the second training set include under-expression-causing variants that reduce gene expression levels. 67.根据条款65所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集指定所述变体的表达过度概率，所述表达过度概率指定所述变体引起基因表达过度的可能性。67. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 65, wherein the second training set specifies an overexpression probability of the variant, wherein the overexpression probability specifies the likelihood that the variant causes overexpression of a gene. 68.根据条款66所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集指定所述变体的表达不足概率，所述表达不足概率指定所述变体引起基因表达不足的可能性。68. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 66, wherein the second training set specifies a probability of underexpression of the variant, wherein the probability of underexpression specifies the likelihood that the variant causes underexpression of a gene. 69.根据条款64所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集中的每个变体是在异常值个体队列之中的异常值个体中出现的罕见变体，69. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 64, wherein each variant in the second training set is a rare variant that occurs in an outlier individual among a cohort of outlier individuals, 其中所述异常值个体队列中的异常值个体表现出极端基因表达水平。The outlier individuals in the outlier individual cohort exhibit extreme gene expression levels. 70.根据条款69所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中从归一化基因表达水平的尾分位数确定所述极端基因表达水平。70. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 69, wherein the extreme gene expression levels are determined from the tail quantiles of the normalized gene expression levels. 71.根据条款70所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述极端基因表达水平包括基因表达过度和基因表达不足。71. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 70, wherein the extreme gene expression levels include gene overexpression and gene underexpression. 72.根据条款69所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述罕见变体是编码变体。72. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 69, wherein the rare variant is a coding variant. 73.根据条款69所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述罕见变体是非编码变体。73. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 69, wherein the rare variant is a non-coding variant. 74.根据条款73所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述非编码变体是5'非翻译区(UTR)变体、3'UTR变体、增强子变体或启动子变体。74. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 73, wherein the non-coding variant is a 5' untranslated region (UTR) variant, a 3'UTR variant, an enhancer variant or a promoter variant. 75.根据条款64所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集中的所述变体跨越多种组织类型。75. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 64, wherein the variants in the second training set span multiple tissue types. 76.根据条款64所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集中的所述变体跨越多种细胞类型。76. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 64, wherein the variants in the second training set span multiple cell types. 77.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述输入碱基序列和所述多个输出序列跨越所述多种组织类型。77. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 1, wherein the input base sequence and the multiple output sequences span the multiple tissue types. 78.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述输入碱基序列和所述多个输出序列跨越所述多种细胞类型。78. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the input base sequence and the multiple output sequences span the multiple cell types. 79.根据条款12所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述基因表达输出序列跨越所述多种组织类型。79. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 12, wherein the gene expression output sequences span the multiple tissue types. 80.根据条款12所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述基因表达输出序列跨越所述多种细胞类型。80. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 12, wherein the gene expression output sequences span the multiple cell types. 81.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述染色质模型和所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件首先对所述第一训练集进行端到端训练，然后对所述第二训练集重新进行训练。81. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the chromatin model and the chromatin output generation logic component are first trained end-to-end on the first training set and then retrained on the second training set. 82.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集中的所述变体用作用指示基因表达改变的第一地面真值标签来标记的致病集，而常见变体用作用指示基因表达未改变的第二地面真值标签来标记的良性集。82. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the variants in the second training set are a pathogenic set labeled with a first ground truth label indicating that gene expression is changed, and the common variants are a benign set labeled with a second ground truth label indicating that gene expression is not changed. 83.根据条款102所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述良性集在三核苷酸背景、均聚物、k-mer、领域GC频率和测序深度方面是平衡的。83. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 102, wherein the benign set is balanced in terms of trinucleotide background, homopolymers, k-mers, genomic GC frequency, and sequencing depth. 84.根据条款102所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中，基于应用于所述表达过度概率和所述表达不足概率的截止概率，所述第二训练集中的所述变体被划分为具有指示基因表达增加的第一地面真值标签的表达过度变体训练集、具有指示基因表达减少的第二地面真值标签的表达过度变体训练集，以及指示基因表达维持的神经表达变体训练集。84. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 102, wherein, based on a cutoff probability applied to the overexpression probability and the underexpression probability, the variants in the second training set are divided into an overexpression variant training set having a first ground truth label indicating an increase in gene expression, an underexpression variant training set having a second ground truth label indicating a decrease in gene expression, and a neural expression variant training set indicating maintenance of gene expression. 85.根据条款12所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述基因表达模型和所述基因表达输出生成逻辑部件首先对所述第一训练集进行端到端训练，然后对所述第二训练集重新进行训练。85. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 12, wherein the gene expression model and the gene expression output generation logic component are first trained end-to-end on the first training set and then retrained on the second training set. 86.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述染色质模型和所述染色质输出生成逻辑部件首先对所述第一训练集进行端到端训练，然后对所述第二训练集中出现在奇染色体上的那些变体重新进行训练。86. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the chromatin model and the chromatin output generation logic component are first trained end-to-end on the first training set, and then retrained on those variants that appear on odd chromosomes in the second training set. 87.根据条款12所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述基因表达模型和所述基因表达输出生成逻辑部件首先对所述第一训练集进行端到端训练，然后对所述第二训练集中出现在奇染色体上的那些变体重新进行训练。87. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 12, wherein the gene expression model and the gene expression output generation logic component are first trained end-to-end on the first training set, and then retrained on those variants that appear on odd chromosomes in the second training set. 88.根据条款64所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集中的所述变体不用于训练，而是用作验证集来评价受过训练的染色质模型、受过训练的染色质输出生成逻辑部件、受过训练的基因表达模型和受过训练的基因表达输出生成逻辑部件的性能。88. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 64, wherein the variants in the second training set are not used for training, but are used as a validation set to evaluate the performance of the trained chromatin model, the trained chromatin output generation logic component, the trained gene expression model and the trained gene expression output generation logic component. 89.根据条款88所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述第二训练集中出现在偶染色体上的那些变体用作所述验证集。89. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 88, wherein those variants in the second training set that appear on even chromosomes are used as the validation set. 90.根据条款1所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述靶碱基序列的尺寸在训练期间变化，以说明转录起始位点(TSS)的偏移位置变化。90. An artificial intelligence-based system according to claim 1, wherein the size of the target base sequence varies during training to account for changes in the offset position of the transcription start site (TSS). 91.一种以每碱基分辨率检测基因表达变化的基于人工智能的系统，包括：91. An artificial intelligence-based system for detecting changes in gene expression at per-base resolution, comprising: 输入生成逻辑部件，其访问序列数据库并生成输入碱基序列，其中所述输入碱基序列包括靶碱基序列，并且其中所述靶碱基序列侧接具有下游背景碱基的右端碱基序列，以及具有上游背景碱基的左端碱基序列；an input generation logic component that accesses a sequence database and generates an input base sequence, wherein the input base sequence includes a target base sequence, and wherein the target base sequence is flanked by a right-end base sequence having downstream background bases, and a left-end base sequence having upstream background bases; 染色质模型，其处理所述输入碱基序列并生成所述输入碱基序列的替代性表示；以及a chromatin model that processes the input base sequence and generates an alternative representation of the input base sequence; and 输出生成逻辑部件，其处理所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示，并针对所述靶碱基序列中的相应靶碱基生成相应的每碱基染色质输出的输出序列，an output generation logic component that processes the alternative representations of the input base sequence and generates an output sequence of corresponding per-base chromatin outputs for corresponding target bases in the target base sequence, 其中所述输出序列中对于所述靶碱基序列中给定位置处的给定靶碱基，给定的每碱基染色质输出指定所述给定靶碱基在所述给定位置处的转录起始的量度。Wherein in the output sequence, for a given target base at a given position in the target base sequence, a given per-base chromatin output specifies a measure of transcription initiation of the given target base at the given position. 92.一种以每碱基分辨率检测基因表达变化的基于人工智能的系统，包括：92. An artificial intelligence-based system for detecting changes in gene expression at per-base resolution, comprising: 输入生成逻辑部件，其访问序列数据库并生成输入碱基序列，其中所述输入碱基序列包括靶碱基序列，并且其中所述靶碱基序列侧接具有下游背景碱基的右端碱基序列，以及具有上游背景碱基的左端碱基序列；an input generation logic component that accesses a sequence database and generates an input base sequence, wherein the input base sequence includes a target base sequence, and wherein the target base sequence is flanked by a right-end base sequence having downstream background bases, and a left-end base sequence having upstream background bases; 基因表达模型，其处理所述输入碱基序列并生成所述输入碱基序列的替代性表示；以及a gene expression model that processes the input base sequence and generates an alternative representation of the input base sequence; and 基因表达模型输出生成逻辑部件，其处理所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示，并针对所述靶碱基序列中的相应靶碱基生成相应的每碱基基因表达输出的基因表达输出序列，a gene expression model output generation logic component that processes the alternative representations of the input base sequence and generates a gene expression output sequence of corresponding per-base gene expression outputs for corresponding target bases in the target base sequence, 其中所述基因表达输出序列中对于所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基，给定的每碱基基因表达输出指定所述给定靶碱基在所述给定位置处的基因表达水平的量度。Wherein for the given target base at the given position in the gene expression output sequence, the given per-base gene expression output specifies a measure of the gene expression level of the given target base at the given position. 93.一种以每碱基分辨率检测基因表达变化的基于人工智能的系统，包括：93. An artificial intelligence-based system for detecting changes in gene expression at per-base resolution, comprising: 输入生成逻辑部件，其访问序列数据库并生成输入碱基序列，其中所述输入碱基序列包括靶碱基序列，并且其中所述靶碱基序列侧接具有下游背景碱基的右端碱基序列，以及具有上游背景碱基的左端碱基序列；an input generation logic component that accesses a sequence database and generates an input base sequence, wherein the input base sequence includes a target base sequence, and wherein the target base sequence is flanked by a right-end base sequence having downstream background bases, and a left-end base sequence having upstream background bases; 染色质模型，其处理所述输入碱基序列并生成所述输入碱基序列的替代性表示；以及a chromatin model that processes the input base sequence and generates an alternative representation of the input base sequence; and 染色质输出生成逻辑部件，其处理所述输入碱基序列的所述替代性表示，并针对所述靶碱基序列中的相应靶碱基生成相应的每碱基染色质输出的输出序列。A chromatin output generation logic component processes the alternative representations of the input base sequence and generates an output sequence of corresponding per-base chromatin outputs for corresponding target bases in the target base sequence. 94.根据条款93所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述输出序列中对于所述靶碱基序列中给定位置处的给定靶碱基，给定的每碱基染色质输出指定所述给定靶碱基跨多个物种的进化保守性的量度。94. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 93, wherein in the output sequence, for a given target base at a given position in the target base sequence, a given per-base chromatin output specifies a measure of the evolutionary conservation of the given target base across multiple species. 95.根据条款93所述的基于人工智能的系统，其中所述给定的每碱基染色质输出进一步指定所述给定位置处的所述给定靶碱基的转录起始量度。95. An artificial intelligence-based system according to clause 93, wherein the given per-base chromatin output further specifies a transcription start measure for the given target base at the given position. 虽然通过参考上文详细描述的优选实施方式和示例公开了本发明，但是应当理解，这些示例旨在进行说明而非进行限制。可以预期，本领域的技术人员将容易想到修改和组合，这些修改和组合将在本发明的实质和以下权利要求书的范围之内。Although the present invention is disclosed by referring to the preferred embodiments and examples described in detail above, it should be understood that these examples are intended to be illustrative rather than restrictive. It is expected that modifications and combinations will be easily conceived by those skilled in the art, and these modifications and combinations will be within the spirit of the present invention and the scope of the following claims.

### Claims

Claims (50) Translated from Chinese 1.一种识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体的计算机实现的方法，包括：1. A computer-implemented method for identifying rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels, comprising: 获取一组个体的基因表达水平；Obtain gene expression levels for a group of individuals; 将所述基因表达水平归一化，以及从所述组个体识别具有极端基因表达水平的那些异常值个体，其中所述极端基因表达水平从归一化的所述基因表达水平的尾分位数确定；normalizing the gene expression levels, and identifying those outlier individuals from the group of individuals having extreme gene expression levels, wherein the extreme gene expression levels are determined from tail quantiles of the normalized gene expression levels; 从所述异常值个体的基因序列中选择罕见变体，其中所述罕见变体基于等位基因频率截止值来选择；selecting rare variants from a gene sequence of the outlier individual, wherein the rare variants are selected based on an allele frequency cutoff; 对因果关系模型进行拟合，以确定所述异常值个体中的所述罕见变体与所述极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素；以及fitting a causal relationship model to determine the causal relationship between the rare variant in the outlier individual and the extreme gene expression level while controlling for multiple confounding factors; and 基于所确定的因果关系生成所述罕见变体的因果关系评分，其中特定罕见变体的特定因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起极端基因表达水平的可能性。A causality score for the rare variant is generated based on the determined causality, wherein a specific causality score for a specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes an extreme gene expression level in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 2.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述因果关系评分是概率值(p值)。2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the causality score is a probability value (p-value). 3.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the p-value is determined by a Pearson correlation coefficient. 4.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述因果关系模型是逻辑回归模型、线性回归模型、协方差分析(ANCOVA)模型和/或协方差多变量分析(MANCOVA)模型。4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the causal relationship model is a logistic regression model, a linear regression model, an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model, and/or a multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) model. 5.根据权利要求4所述的计算机实现的方法，其中拟合因果关系模型通过根据由特定罕见变体引起的变体驱动的基因表达水平预测特定染色体中特定基因的特定基因表达水平来确定所述因果关系。5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein fitting the causal relationship model determines the causal relationship by predicting a specific gene expression level of a specific gene in a specific chromosome based on a variant-driven gene expression level caused by a specific rare variant. 6.根据权利要求5所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述变体驱动的基因表达水平作为变体效应协变量的贡献。6. A computer-implemented method according to claim 5, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the variant-driven gene expression level as a variant effect covariate. 7.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括远端反式表达数量性状基因座(eQTL)效应。7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors comprises distal trans-expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) effects. 8.根据权利要求7所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由其他染色体中的其他基因引起的反式基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述远端反式eQTL效应。8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the fitted causal model controls the distal trans-eQTL effect by predicting the specific gene expression level from trans-gene expression levels caused by other genes in other chromosomes. 9.根据权利要求8所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述反式基因表达水平作为反式效应协变量的贡献。9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the trans-acting gene expression level as a trans-effect covariate. 10.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括局部顺式eQTL效应。10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors comprises local cis-eQTL effects. 11.根据权利要求10所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由所述特定基因邻域中存在多个常见变体引起的顺式基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述局部顺式eQTL效应。11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the fitted causal model controls for the local cis-eQTL effect by predicting the specific gene expression level from the cis-gene expression levels caused by the presence of multiple common variants in the specific gene neighborhood. 12.根据权利要求11所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述邻域由所述特定基因中相对于转录起始位点(TSS)的偏移量来限定。12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the neighborhood is defined by an offset relative to a transcription start site (TSS) in the specific gene. 13.根据权利要求11所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述顺式基因表达水平作为顺式效应协变量的贡献。13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the cis gene expression level as a cis-effect covariate. 14.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括群体结构和祖先效应。14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors comprises population structure and ancestry effects. 15.根据权利要求14所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述群体结构和祖先效应由一种或多种基于基因型的主成分(gPC)表示。15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein the population structure and ancestry effects are represented by one or more genotype-based principal components (gPCs). 16.根据权利要求15所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由所述gPC引起的gPC基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述群体结构和祖先效应。16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the fitted causal model controls for the population structure and ancestry effects by predicting the specific gene expression level based on the gPC gene expression level caused by the gPC. 17.根据权利要求16所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述gPC基因表达水平作为群体结构和祖先效应协变量的贡献。17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the fitted causal model measures the gPC gene expression levels as contributions of population structure and ancestry effect covariates. 18.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括表达式残差(PEER)效应的概率估计。18. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of confounders comprises a probability estimate of expression residual (PEER) effect. 19.根据权利要求18所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由所述PEER引起的PEER基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述PEER效应。19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the fitted causal model controls the PEER effect by predicting the specific gene expression level based on the PEER gene expression level caused by the PEER. 20.根据权利要求19所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述PEER基因表达水平作为PEER效应协变量的贡献。20. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the PEER gene expression level as a PEER effect covariate. 21.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括环境效应。21. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors includes environmental effects. 22.根据权利要求21所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型通过根据由所述环境效应引起的环境基因表达水平预测所述特定基因表达水平来控制所述环境效应。22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the fitted causal model controls for the environmental effect by predicting the specific gene expression level based on the environmental gene expression level caused by the environmental effect. 23.根据权利要求22所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述拟合因果关系模型测量所述环境基因表达水平作为环境效应协变量的贡献。23. A computer-implemented method according to claim 22, wherein the fitted causal model measures the contribution of the environmental gene expression level as an environmental effect covariate. 24.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述多种混杂因素包括性别效应、批次效应、基因分型平台效应和文库构建方案效应。24. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of confounding factors comprises sex effect, batch effect, genotyping platform effect, and library construction protocol effect. 25.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述极端基因表达水平包括基因表达过度和基因表达不足。25. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the extreme gene expression levels include gene overexpression and gene underexpression. 26.根据权利要求24所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括确定所述罕见变体与所述基因表达过度之间的所述因果关系，同时控制所述多种混杂因素。26. The computer-implemented method of claim 24, further comprising determining the causal relationship between the rare variant and the gene overexpression while controlling for the plurality of confounding factors. 27.根据权利要求25所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括生成所述罕见变体的过度因果关系评分，其中所述特定罕见变体的特定过度因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起基因表达过度的可能性。27. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, further comprising generating an excess causality score for the rare variant, wherein the specific excess causality score for the specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes overexpression of a gene in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 28.根据权利要求26所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述过度因果关系评分是过度概率值(过度p值)。28. The computer-implemented method of claim 26, wherein the excess causality score is an excess probability value (excess p-value). 29.根据权利要求27所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述过度p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。29. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein the excess p-value is determined by a Pearson correlation coefficient. 30.根据权利要求27所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述过度p值指定所述罕见变体在相对于基因集合中的其他基因原本具有较低基因表达的基因中增加基因表达的在统计上无混杂的可能性。30. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein the excess p-value specifies a statistically unconfounded likelihood that the rare variant increases gene expression in a gene that otherwise has lower gene expression relative to other genes in a gene set. 31.根据权利要求24所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括确定所述罕见变体与所述基因表达不足之间的所述因果关系，同时控制所述多种混杂因素。31. The computer-implemented method of claim 24, further comprising determining the causal relationship between the rare variant and underexpression of the gene while controlling for the plurality of confounding factors. 32.根据权利要求30所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括生成所述罕见变体的不足因果关系评分，其中所述特定罕见变体的特定不足因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起基因表达不足的可能性。32. The computer-implemented method of claim 30, further comprising generating a deficiency causality score for the rare variant, wherein the specific deficiency causality score for the specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes insufficient gene expression in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 33.根据权利要求31所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述不足因果关系评分是不足概率值(不足p值)。33. The computer-implemented method of claim 31, wherein the deficiency causality score is a deficiency probability value (deficiency p-value). 34.根据权利要求32所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述不足p值由皮尔逊相关系数确定。34. The computer-implemented method of claim 32, wherein the deficiency p-value is determined by a Pearson correlation coefficient. 35.根据权利要求32所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述不足p值指定所述罕见变体在相对于基因集合中的其他基因原本具有较高基因表达的基因中降低基因表达的在统计上无混杂的可能性。35. The computer-implemented method of claim 32, wherein the insufficient p-value specifies a statistically unconfounded likelihood that the rare variant reduces gene expression in a gene that otherwise has higher gene expression relative to other genes in the gene set. 36.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述罕见变体是非编码变体。36. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the rare variant is a non-coding variant. 37.根据权利要求17所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述非编码变体包括5'非翻译区(UTR)变体、3'UTR变体、增强子变体和启动子变体。37. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the non-coding variants include 5' untranslated region (UTR) variants, 3' UTR variants, enhancer variants, and promoter variants. 38.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述基因表达水平被进一步分层为多种组织的组织特异性基因表达水平。38. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the gene expression levels are further stratified into tissue-specific gene expression levels of multiple tissues. 39.根据权利要求37所述的计算机实现的方法，其中使用分位数归一化来将每个组织中的每个基因的所述基因表达水平归一化。39. The computer-implemented method of claim 37, wherein quantile normalization is used to normalize the gene expression levels of each gene in each tissue. 40.根据权利要求38所述的计算机实现的方法，其中针对每个组织单独拟合所述因果关系模型。40. The computer-implemented method of claim 38, wherein the causal model is fit separately for each tissue. 41.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中使用分层来拟合所述因果关系模型。41. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the causal model is fit using stratification. 42.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括基于所述因果关系评分生成所述罕见变体的排名。42. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising generating a ranking of the rare variants based on the causality score. 43.根据权利要求26所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括基于所述过度因果关系评分生成所述罕见变体的排名。43. The computer-implemented method of claim 26, further comprising generating a ranking of the rare variants based on the excess causality score. 44.根据权利要求31所述的计算机实现的方法，还包括基于所述不足因果关系评分生成所述罕见变体的排名。44. The computer-implemented method of claim 31 , further comprising generating a ranking of the rare variants based on the insufficient causality scores. 45.根据权利要求1所述的计算机实现的方法，其中所述罕见变体是单现变体。45. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the rare variant is a single-occurring variant. 46.根据权利要求44所述的计算机实现的方法，其中单现变体出现在来自所述异常值个体的唯一一个异常值个体中。46. The computer-implemented method of claim 44, wherein a single-occurring variant occurs in only one outlier individual from among the outlier individuals. 47.一种系统，包括一个或多个耦接到存储器的处理器，所述存储器装载有计算机指令以识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体，所述指令当在所述处理器上执行时实现包括以下各项的动作：47. A system comprising one or more processors coupled to a memory loaded with computer instructions to identify rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels, the instructions when executed on the processors performing actions comprising: 获取一组个体的基因表达水平；Obtain gene expression levels for a group of individuals; 将所述基因表达水平归一化，以及从所述组个体识别具有极端基因表达水平的那些异常值个体，其中所述极端基因表达水平从归一化的所述基因表达水平的尾分位数确定；normalizing the gene expression levels, and identifying those outlier individuals from the group of individuals having extreme gene expression levels, wherein the extreme gene expression levels are determined from tail quantiles of the normalized gene expression levels; 从所述异常值个体的基因序列中选择罕见变体，其中所述罕见变体基于等位基因频率截止值来选择；selecting rare variants from a gene sequence of the outlier individual, wherein the rare variants are selected based on an allele frequency cutoff; 对因果关系模型进行拟合，以确定所述异常值个体中的所述罕见变体与所述极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素；以及fitting a causal relationship model to determine the causal relationship between the rare variant in the outlier individual and the extreme gene expression level while controlling for multiple confounding factors; and 基于所确定的因果关系生成所述罕见变体的因果关系评分，其中特定罕见变体的特定因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起极端基因表达水平的可能性。A causality score for the rare variant is generated based on the determined causality, wherein a specific causality score for a specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes an extreme gene expression level in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 48.根据权利要求46所述的系统，进一步实现包括执行权利要求2至45的动作。48. The system of claim 46, further implemented to include performing the actions of claims 2 to 45. 49.一种印有计算机程序指令的非暂态计算机可读存储介质，用于识别引起极端基因表达水平的罕见变体，所述指令当在处理器上执行时实现一种方法，所述方法包括：49. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having printed thereon computer program instructions for identifying rare variants that cause extreme gene expression levels, the instructions when executed on a processor implementing a method comprising: 获取一组个体的基因表达水平；Obtain gene expression levels for a group of individuals; 将所述基因表达水平归一化，以及从所述组个体识别具有极端基因表达水平的那些异常值个体，其中所述极端基因表达水平从归一化的所述基因表达水平的尾分位数确定；normalizing the gene expression levels, and identifying those outlier individuals from the group of individuals having extreme gene expression levels, wherein the extreme gene expression levels are determined from tail quantiles of the normalized gene expression levels; 从所述异常值个体的基因序列中选择罕见变体，其中所述罕见变体基于等位基因频率截止值来选择；selecting rare variants from a gene sequence of the outlier individual, wherein the rare variants are selected based on an allele frequency cutoff; 对因果关系模型进行拟合，以确定所述异常值个体中的所述罕见变体与所述极端基因表达水平之间的因果关系，同时控制多种混杂因素；以及fitting a causal relationship model to determine the causal relationship between the rare variant in the outlier individual and the extreme gene expression level while controlling for multiple confounding factors; and 基于所确定的因果关系生成所述罕见变体的因果关系评分，其中特定罕见变体的特定因果关系评分指示所述特定罕见变体在其基因序列含有所述特定罕见变体的那些异常值个体中引起极端基因表达水平的可能性。A causality score for the rare variant is generated based on the determined causality, wherein a specific causality score for a specific rare variant indicates the likelihood that the specific rare variant causes an extreme gene expression level in those outlier individuals whose gene sequences contain the specific rare variant. 50.根据权利要求46所述的非暂态计算机可读存储介质，实现所述方法还包括执行权利要求2至45。50. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 46, implementing the method further comprising executing claims 2 to 45.
