## Patent Reference

- Title: Gene fusions and gene variants associated with cancer
- URL: https://patents.google.com/patent/CN105378110B/en

### Abstract

Abstract The present invention provides gene fusions, gene variants and novel correlations with disease conditions, and kits, probes and methods of using the same.

### Description

Description Gene fusions and gene variants associated with cancerTechnical Field The present invention relates generally to gene fusions and gene variants associated with cancer. Background Aberrations such as chromosomal translocations and genetic variants are often found in human cancer cells. Chromosomal translocation may result in chimeric genes that express fusion transcripts, which are then translated into fusion proteins that affect the normal regulatory pathways and stimulate cancer cell growth. Genetic variants can also produce abnormal proteins that affect the normal regulatory pathways. The identification of new fusion genes, new variants of known fusion genes, and gene variants or alleles provides opportunities for other diagnostic and cancer therapeutic targets. Disclosure of Invention The present invention provides novel gene fusion variants and gene fusion-disease state associations. The gene fusions provided herein are associated with a particular cancer. The invention further provides probes (e.g., amplification primer sets and detection probes) and methods and systems for detection, diagnosis and treatment, as well as kits comprising or detecting the gene fusions disclosed herein. In one embodiment, the invention provides a reaction mixture comprising a probe or a set of probes that specifically recognizes a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22. The probe set may be, for example, an amplification primer set. In another embodiment, provided herein is a reaction mixture comprising one primer set flanking a gene fusion in a target nucleic acid selected from tables 1-3, table 19, and table 22. For example, the primer set may each bind to a target sequence in the human genome within 1000, 750, 500, 250, 100, 90, 80, 75, 70, 65, 50, or 25 nucleotides of opposite sides of one of the fusion breakpoint identified in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. The reaction mixture of this embodiment may further comprise detector probes that bind to either side of the breakpoint in the gene fusions selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22, or bind to a binding region spanning the breakpoint in the gene fusions selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22, including embodiments wherein the breakpoint is identified in tables 4-6, 20 and 23. In an exemplary embodiment, the detector probe binds to a target sequence in the human genome within 1000, 750, 500, 250, 100, 90, 80, 75, 70, 60, 50, or 25 nucleotides of one of the fusion breakpoint identified in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. The reaction mixture, including or not including the detector probe, may further include a polymerase, reverse transcriptase, dntps, and/or uracil DNA deglycosylating enzyme (UDG). Polymerase, reverse transcriptase and UDG are not typically from human sources. The polymerase in the illustrative embodiment is a thermostable polymerase, such as Taq polymerase. In certain embodiments, the dntps in the reaction mixture comprise dUTP, and in certain examples, the reaction mixture may be free of dTTP. In addition, the reaction mixture may include an amplicon, such as a DNA amplicon, that includes one or more deoxyuridine ('dU') residues. In certain embodiments, the reaction mixture includes a DNA amplicon that includes one or more dU residues for each deoxythymidine residue in the corresponding human genomic sequence. In certain embodiments, the amplicon comprises a segment of the corresponding sequence that is not found in the human genome, such as a DNA barcode sequence. The length of the non-human segment may be, for example, 5-10,000, 5-5000, 5-1000, 5-500, 5-100, 5-50, 5-25, 5-10, 10-10,000, 10-5000, 10-1000, 10-500, 10-100, 10-50, or 10-25 nucleotides. In certain embodiments, the amplicon includes a segment corresponding to a region of the human genome that spans the intron, but the amplicon does not include a segment corresponding to the intron. The reaction mixture may further comprise a target nucleic acid, e.g., a human target nucleic acid. The human target nucleic acid may be isolated, for example, from a biological sample of an individual suspected of having a cancer selected from the group consisting of: BLCA = bladder cancer, BRCA = breast cancer, CESC = cervical cell cancer, COAD = colon adenocarcinoma, GBM = glioblastoma multiforme, HNSC = head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, KIRK = clear cell renal cell carcinoma, KIRP = kidney renal papillary cell carcinoma, LAML = acute myelogenous leukemia, LGG = brain low-grade glioma, LIHC = liver hepatocellular carcinoma, LUAD = lung adenocarcinoma, lucc = squamous cell lung cancer, OV = ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, PRAD = prostate adenocarcinoma, LAML = acute myelogenous leukemia, LGG = brain low-grade glioma, READ = rectal adenocarcinoma, SKCM = cutaneous melanoma, STAD = gastric adenocarcinoma, THCA = thyroid carcinoma and UCEC = endometrial carcinoma of the uterus. In certain embodiments, the target nucleic acid is from a tumor, such as a tumor of one of the cancer types listed in the previous sentence. In another embodiment, a probe set is provided that specifically recognizes a probe set comprising SEQ ID NO:1-257 (gene fusion). In another embodiment, provided herein is a primer set that specifically amplifies a primer set comprising SEQ ID NO:1-257, or amplifying at least 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200, or all of the target nucleic acids of SEQ ID NOs: 1-257, up to 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200, or all. In another embodiment, provided herein is a qPCR assay, such as a TaqMan TM assay or MolecularBeacons TM assay, that specifically amplifies and detects a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO:1-257, at least 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200, or all of the target nucleic acids. The invention also provides an isolated nucleic acid comprising a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-257, at least 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200 or all of the amino acid sequences comprising SEQ ID NOs: 1-257, up to 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200, or all. The isolated nucleic acid may include a first primer on the 5' end. Furthermore, the nucleic acid may be single-stranded or double-stranded. In certain embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid comprises a segment of the corresponding sequence that is not found in the human genome, such as a DNA barcode sequence. The length of a segment can be, for example, 5-10,000, 5-5000, 5-1000, 5-500, 5-100, 5-50, 5-25, 5-10, 10-10,000, 10-5000, 10-1000, 10-500, 10-100, 10-50, or 10-25 nucleotides. In other embodiments, the invention provides a kit comprising a detector probe and/or a set of probes, e.g., an amplification primer set, that specifically recognizes a nucleic acid comprising a breakpoint of a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19, and 22. For example, in certain embodiments, the detector probes or amplification primer sets are designed to amplify and/or detect a nucleic acid comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO:1-257, up to 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200, or all of the nucleic acids of at least one of. The kit may further comprise at least one component from the amplification reaction mixture, such as a polymerase, dntps, reverse transcriptase and/or UDG, typically reverse transcriptase, polymerase and UDG, not from human sources, in one or more separate containers or in the same container. In certain embodiments, the dntps comprise dutps, and in the illustrative example no dttps. The polymerase in the illustrative embodiment is a thermostable polymerase, such as Taq polymerase. In addition, the kit may include a control nucleic acid. For example, the control nucleic acid may comprise a sequence comprising a breakpoint in a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22, as set forth in SEQ ID NO:1-257 or a nucleic acid comprising at least 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200 or all of SEQ ID NO:1-257, up to 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200 or all. A method of detecting cancer is provided comprising amplifying a nucleic acid spanning a breakpoint in a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19, and 22, e.g., the nucleic acid may comprise a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-257; and detecting the presence of the nucleic acid, wherein the presence of the nucleic acid is indicative of the presence of cancer in the sample. In another method, provided herein is a method of detecting a cancer selected from bladder cancer, colon cancer, breast cancer, endometrial cancer, melanoma, ovarian cancer, glioblastoma, glioma, leukemia, renal cell carcinoma, thyroid cancer, and prostate cancer comprising producing a polypeptide comprising a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-257, and detecting the presence of said amplicon, wherein the presence of said amplicon is indicative of bladder cancer, colon cancer, melanoma, ovarian cancer, glioblastoma, lung cancer, glioma, leukemia, renal cell carcinoma, thyroid cancer, endometrial adenocarcinomas, breast cancer, and prostate adenocarcinomas present in a sample. The amplicon generally includes primers that are extended to form the amplicon. The cancer is selected from the group consisting of bladder urothelial cancer, breast cancer, endometrial adenocarcinomas, colon adenocarcinomas, glioblastoma multiforme, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, papillary renal cell carcinoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, brain low grade glioma, lung adenocarcinomas, ovarian serous cyst adenocarcinomas, prostate adenocarcinomas, rectal skin melanoma, and thyroid adenocarcinomas. In certain illustrative embodiments, the resulting amplicon is a DNA amplicon that includes dU residues and, in some examples, does not include dT residues. In the methods provided in this paragraph, amplicons can be generated using the reaction mixtures provided herein. In certain embodiments, the methods comprise detecting expression of a nucleic acid that spans a breakpoint in a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19, and 22. Methods for detecting expression typically include the step of isolating RNA from a sample, such as a tumor sample, which in an illustrative embodiment may be a formalin (formalin) fixed sample. In one embodiment, the reaction mixture comprises a dye selected from SYBR Green, SBYR Greener, fluorescein (Fluorescein), oregon Green (Oregon Green), FAM, TET, JOE, VIC, jac horse yellow (Yakima Yellow), HEX, cy3, bodipy TMR, NED, TAMRA, cy3.5, ROX, texas Red (Texas Red), LIGHTCYCLER RED, bodipy 630/650, alexa Fluor 647, cy5, alexa Fluor 660, or Cy 5.5. In certain embodiments, the dye is attached to a detectably labeled probe in the reaction mixture. In other embodiments, the dye binds to the amplicon directly or via a detectably labeled probe. A kit is provided comprising a probe or a set of probes, such as a detectable probe or a set of amplification primers, that specifically recognizes nucleic acids comprising breakpoint from tables 4-6, 20 and 23. The kit may further comprise components from the amplification reaction mixture, such as a polymerase (typically not from human origin), dntps and/or UDG, in the same container or in certain preferred embodiments in another container. In addition, the kit may include a control nucleic acid. For example, the control nucleic acid can include a sequence comprising a breakpoint selected from tables 4-6, 20, and 23. In another embodiment, provided herein is a gene fusion comprising the gene fusions identified in tables 1-3, 19 and 22. In an illustrative embodiment, the gene fusion includes one of the breakpoint identified in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. Thus, provided herein is an isolated gene fusion nucleic acid that is between 100 and 10,000 nucleotides in length and comprises at least 25 nucleotides on either side of one of the breakpoint in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. In a related embodiment, provided herein is an isolated gene fusion nucleic acid comprising at least one of the breakpoint in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. In certain embodiments, the isolated gene fusion nucleic acid comprises SEQ ID NO:1-257, at least 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200 or all of the amino acid sequences comprising SEQ ID NOs: 1-257, up to 25, 30, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 200 or all. The length of the isolated gene fusion nucleic acid can be, for example, between 50 and 100,000 nucleotides, between 100 and 50,000 nucleotides, between 100 and 25,000 nucleotides, between 100 and 10,000 nucleotides, between 100 and 5,000 nucleotides, between 100 and 2500 nucleotides, between 100 and 1,000 nucleotides, between 100 and 500 nucleotides, between 100 and 250 nucleotides, between 100 and 200 nucleotides, between 250 and 10,000 nucleotides, between 250 and 5,000 nucleotides, between 250 and 1,000 nucleotides, or between 250 and 500 nucleotides. In certain aspects, the isolated gene fusion nucleic acid is DNA. In certain illustrative embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid gene fusion is free of intronic sequences but spans a region in the genome that includes one or more introns. In certain embodiments, the isolated gene fusion nucleic acid is a cDNA. In another embodiment, an isolated gene fusion nucleic acid is provided comprising at least one of the breakpoint in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. In another embodiment is a method of detecting a cancer selected from the group consisting of bladder urothelial cancer, breast cancer, endometrial adenoid carcinoma, colon adenocarcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, papillary renal cell carcinoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, brain low grade glioma, lung adenocarcinoma, ovarian serous cyst adenocarcinoma, prostate adenocarcinoma, rectal skin melanoma, and thyroid gland carcinoma in a sample by detecting the presence of a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19, and 22. The present invention provides novel gene variants and gene variant-disease condition associations. The gene variant may have one or more mutations that produce the variant protein. The genetic variants provided herein are associated with certain cancers. Genetic variants produce protein variants. The invention further provides probes (e.g., amplification primer sets and detection probes) and methods of detection, diagnosis and treatment, as well as kits comprising or detecting the gene variants disclosed herein. In one embodiment, the invention provides a composition and a kit comprising a set of probes that specifically recognize a nucleotide sequence encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. The probe set may be, for example, an amplification primer set. In another embodiment, provided herein is a composition comprising a primer set flanking a gene variant encoding one or more of the variants in table 7 and/or table 11. The reaction mixture of this embodiment may further comprise a detector probe that binds to a nucleotide sequence comprising a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. The reaction mixture, including or not including the detector probe, may further include a polymerase, dntps, and/or uracil DNA deglycosylating enzyme (UDG). Polymerase and UDG are not typically from human sources. The reaction mixture may further comprise a target nucleic acid, e.g., a human target nucleic acid. The human target nucleic acid may be isolated, for example, from a biological sample from an individual suspected of having cancer. The cancer may be selected from: BLCA = bladder cancer, BRCA = breast cancer, CESC = cervical cell cancer, COAD = colon adenocarcinoma, GBM = glioblastoma multiforme, HNSC = head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, KIRK = clear cell renal cell carcinoma, KIRP = kidney renal papillary cell carcinoma, LAML = acute myelogenous leukemia, LGG = brain low-grade glioma, LIHC = liver hepatocellular carcinoma, LUAD = lung adenocarcinoma, lucc = squamous cell lung cancer, OV = ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, PRAD = prostate adenocarcinoma, READ = rectal adenocarcinoma, SKCM = skin melanoma, STAD = gastric adenocarcinoma, THCA = thyroid carcinoma, and UCEC = endometrial carcinoma. The nucleotide sequence encoding one or more of the genetic variants in table 7 and/or table 11 may be of any size that encompasses such variants. For example, the nucleotide sequence may be of any size that can be readily detected using a primer copy and/or using a probe. In another embodiment, a probe set is provided that specifically recognizes a nucleic acid encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11 (gene variants). In another embodiment, provided herein is a primer set that specifically amplifies a target nucleic acid encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. In another embodiment, provided herein are qPCR assays, such as (but not limited to) TaqMan TM assays, scorpions assays, or MolecularBeacons TM assays, that specifically amplify and detect a target nucleic acid encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. The invention also provides an isolated nucleic acid comprising at least one sequence encoding one or more gene variants selected from table 7 and/or table 11. The isolated nucleic acid may include a first primer on the 5' end. Furthermore, the nucleic acid may be single-stranded or double-stranded. In other embodiments, the invention provides a kit comprising a detector probe and/or a set of probes, e.g., an amplification primer set, that specifically recognizes nucleic acids encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. For example, in certain embodiments, detector probes or amplification primer sets are designed to amplify and/or detect nucleic acids encoding variants in table 7 and/or table 11. The kit may further comprise components from the amplification reaction mixture, such as a polymerase (typically not from human origin), dntps and/or UDG, in another container or in the same container. In addition, the kit may include a control nucleic acid. For example, the control nucleic acid may comprise a sequence comprising a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. A method of detecting cancer is provided comprising amplifying a nucleic acid encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11, e.g., the nucleic acid may comprise a sequence from one of the accession numbers in table 7 and/or table 11, except that the sequence contains a variant encoding a gene variant in table 7 and/or table 11; and detecting the presence of the nucleic acid, wherein the presence of the nucleic acid is indicative of the presence of cancer in the sample. In another method, provided herein is a method of detecting cancer comprising generating an amplicon comprising a sequence encoding a variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11, and detecting the presence of the nucleic acid, wherein the presence of the nucleic acid is indicative of cancer or a cancer cell being present in a sample. The amplicon generally includes primers that are extended to form the amplicon. The cancer is selected from bladder cancer, breast cancer, cervical cell carcinoma, colon adenocarcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, kidney papillary cell carcinoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, brain low-grade glioma, liver hepatocellular carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung carcinoma, ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, prostate adenocarcinoma, rectal adenocarcinoma, skin melanoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, thyroid cancer, and endometrial cancer of the uterus body. A kit is provided comprising a probe set (e.g., an amplification primer set) that specifically recognizes nucleic acids comprising gene variants from table 7 and/or table 11. The kit may further comprise components from the amplification reaction mixture, such as a polymerase (typically not from human origin), dntps and/or UDG, in another container or in the same container. In addition, the kit may include a control nucleic acid. For example, the control nucleic acid can include sequences comprising gene variants from table 7 and/or table 11. In certain embodiments, a probe set is provided that specifically recognizes a nucleic acid comprising a gene variant from table 7 and/or table 11. In another embodiment, a genetic variant is provided comprising at least one of the genetic variants in table 7 and/or table 11. In another embodiment is a method of detecting a cancer selected from bladder cancer, breast cancer, cervical cell cancer, colon adenocarcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, renal papillary cell carcinoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, brain low-grade glioma, liver hepatocellular carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung carcinoma, ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, prostate adenocarcinoma, rectal adenocarcinoma, skin melanoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, thyroid cancer, and endometrial cancer in a sample by detecting the presence of a genetic variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. Gene variants may include, but are not limited to, the ZNF479 variants R11Q, R295K, R295T, R295I, R345I, R345T, K438T and T466K. In another embodiment, a method of delivering a drug to a subject is provided, wherein the method comprises detecting a genetic event identified in table 15, and treating the subject with the drug, wherein the drug is believed to positively affect the clinical outcome of a patient having the genetic event. In an illustrative embodiment, the genetic event is associated with a gene found in table 8, and the drug is listed in table 8 as a partner for the gene. In another embodiment, provided herein is a method of determining whether a subject receives a drug, the method comprising detecting a genetic event identified in table 15, and then delivering a drug to the subject if the detected genetic event is listed in table 15 as being associated with a poor prognosis, wherein the drug is believed to positively affect the clinical outcome of a patient having the genetic event. In an illustrative embodiment, the genetic event is associated with a gene found in table 8, and the drug is listed in table 8 as a partner for the gene. In one embodiment, a kit is provided, wherein the kit comprises one probe set, wherein each probe specifically hybridizes to a nucleic acid comprising a breakpoint from tables 4-6, 20, and 23. In one embodiment, a method is provided, the method comprising: amplifying nucleic acids from the sample comprising at least one gene fusion from tables 1-3, 19 and 22; and detecting the presence of the at least one gene fusion by at least one of: contacting the composition with at least one probe, wherein each probe specifically hybridizes to the nucleic acid, or observing the presence of a non-native or non-native chemical structure in the nucleic acid; wherein detecting the presence of the at least one gene fusion indicates that at least one cancer from tables 1-3, 19 and 22 is present in the sample. In one embodiment, a system is provided comprising a nucleic acid amplifier configured to amplify nucleic acids from a sample comprising at least one gene fusion from tables 1-3, 19, and 22, resulting in amplified nucleic acids; a detector configured to detect the presence of the at least one gene fusion in the amplified nucleic acid by at least one of: (i) Contacting a composition with at least one probe, wherein each probe specifically hybridizes to the nucleic acid, or (ii) observing the presence of a non-native or non-native chemical structure in the nucleic acid, and is further configured to send a detection indication; and a computer system configured to receive the detection indication and determine that at least one cancer from tables 1-3, 19, and 22 is present in the sample based on the detection indication. In one embodiment, a non-transitory computer readable program storage unit is provided, encoded with instructions that, when executed by a computer, perform a method comprising: receiving an input comprising at least one cancer type and an event type, wherein the cancer type is selected from table 15 and the event type is selected from table 15; querying a database for at least one entry comprising a plurality of fields, wherein the plurality of fields comprises at least one of the cancer type and the event type; and sending an output comprising at least one field of the plurality of fields from the at least one entry, wherein the at least one field comprises at least one gene, at least one pharmaceutically acceptable gene, at least one drug targeting the at least one pharmaceutically acceptable gene, or a prognosis. In one embodiment, a method is provided, wherein the method comprises administering at least one drug selected from the drugs listed in tables 8, 16-17, 21, and 24 to a patient having at least one gene fusion selected from the gene fusions listed in tables 1-3, 19, and 22. In one embodiment, a method is provided, wherein the method comprises contacting a nucleic acid sample from a patient with a reaction mixture comprising a first primer complementary to a first gene and a second primer complementary to a second gene, wherein a fusion of the first gene and the second gene is detectable by the presence of an amplicon generated from the first primer and the second primer, wherein the fusion comprises a breakpoint selected from the breakpoints listed in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. In one embodiment, a non-transitory computer readable program storage unit is provided, encoded with instructions that, when executed by a computer, perform a method comprising: receiving RNA sequence data from at least one cancer cell line; running at least one gene fusion calling program on the sequence data to identify possible breakpoint between fusion genes in the processed data; filtering the possible breakpoint to preserve candidate breakpoint, wherein each candidate breakpoint is in the 5' untranslated region (UTR) or Coding DNA Sequence (CDS) of the functional gene region, and each candidate breakpoint is not present in an intron; annotating the candidate breakpoint with at least one annotation suitable for determining the relatedness of the gene fusion for at least one of a cancer diagnosis, a cancer prognosis, or a cancer treatment, wherein the gene fusion comprises the candidate breakpoint. In one embodiment, a non-transitory computer readable program storage unit is provided, encoded with instructions that, when executed by a computer, perform a method comprising: receiving mutation data from at least one cancer cell line; annotating the mutation data with at least one of a variant classification, a variant position, or a variant change, resulting in annotated mutation data; filtering the annotated mutation data to obtain gene region mutation data; classifying the gene region mutation data as hot spots, deleterious or otherwise; and naming a gene comprising mutations in a region of said gene as an additional gene that is functional, nonfunctional or reproducible based on the relative frequency of the mutations in said gene and the classification of all the mutations in said gene region. In one embodiment, a method is provided that includes detecting one or more gene fusions in a sample from a subject, resulting in gene fusion detection data, wherein at least one of the gene fusions is a gene fusion selected from the group consisting of those listed in tables 1-3, 19, and 22, receiving the gene fusion detection data by a computer system, and confirming, by the computer system, at least one treatment option recommended to the subject based on the gene fusion detection data. In one embodiment, a system is provided comprising a detector configured to (i) detect one or more gene fusions in a sample from a subject, resulting in gene fusion detection data, wherein at least one of the gene fusions is selected from the group consisting of the gene fusions listed in tables 1-3, 19 and 22 and (ii) transmit the gene fusion detection data; and a computer system configured to receive the gene fusion body detection data and confirm at least one treatment selection recommended to the subject based on the gene fusion body detection data. In another embodiment, novel TP53 WT gene tags are provided, as well as methods of detecting expression levels of one or more of the TP53 WT gene tag genes in table 40. Drawings FIG. 1 provides a workflow for gene fusion RNASeq data processing. FIG. 2 shows a classification scheme for obtaining gene variants of functional and nonfunctional genes. FIG. 3 outlines the data flow for integrating various data types into the Gene Event Database (GEDB). FIG. 4 is a flow chart showing the rolling up of a genetic event Fig. 5 is a diagram showing a significant increase in TP53 WT expression signature in TP53 WT breast cancer compared to a breast cancer sample containing a TP53 point mutation. FIG. 6 is a diagram showing a significant increase in TP53 WT expression signature in TP53 WT lung cancer compared to a lung cancer sample containing a TP53 mutation. Figure 7 is a diagram showing a significant increase in TP53 WT expression signature in HP53 WT ovarian cancer compared to ovarian cancer samples containing TP53 mutations. Figures 8A-D are graphs depicting crude RPKM expression values (a-B) versus z-score normalized values (C-D) for PLXNB a 21 and COL7A1 in serous ovarian cancer patients. The broad population dip in PLXNB expression at exons 12, 17 and 23 was smoothed in the normalized data. Samples predicted to have fusions between these genes, red diamonds indicate predicted breakpoint exons for calling programs. FIG. 9 is a table of common TP53 mutations using amino acid positions. Mutations are shown to occur in the pan-cancer assay with an overall frequency of > 0.25% in patients. Reproducible splice site mutations were identified at the intron-exon junctions affecting T-125 FIG. 10 is a table of Tp53 in-frame insertion and deletion mutations. The largest detected in-frame insertion-deletion identified was 21bp. More than 99% of non-transposon insertions on the genome are deleted < 100bp. Detailed Description The present invention provides novel gene fusions and variants, and novel correlations of gene fusions and/or gene variants with certain cancer types. Further provided are probes, reaction mixtures, assays and kits relating to the gene fusions and/or variants disclosed herein. Definition of the definition The term 'marker' or 'biomarker' refers to a molecule (typically a protein, nucleic acid, carbohydrate or lipid) expressed in a cell, expressed on the surface of a cancer cell, or secreted by a cancer cell as compared to a non-cancer cell, and which is useful for diagnosing cancer, for providing prognosis, and for preferential targeting of a drug to a cancer cell. Oftentimes, the marker is a molecule that is overexpressed in cancer cells as compared to non-cancer cells, e.g., 1-fold, 2-fold, 3-fold or more over-expressed as compared to normal cells. In addition, the marker may be a molecule that is improperly synthesized in cancer cells, for example, a molecule that contains a deletion, addition, or mutation as compared to a molecule expressed on normal cells. Alternatively, such biomarkers are molecules that are under-expressed in cancer cells compared to non-cancer cells, e.g., 1-fold under-expression, 2-fold under-expression, 3-fold under-expression, or more. In addition, the marker may be a molecule that is not properly synthesized in cancer, for example, a molecule that contains a deletion, addition, or mutation as compared to a molecule expressed on normal cells. The skilled artisan will appreciate that a marker may be used in combination with other markers or tests for any of the uses disclosed herein (e.g., prediction, diagnosis, or prognosis of cancer). 'Biological samples' include tissue sections, such as biopsies and necropsy samples, as well as frozen sections taken for histological purposes. For example, the biological sample may comprise a Freshly Frozen Paraffin Embedded (FFPE) sample. Alternatively, the biological sample may include blood and blood fractions or products (e.g., serum, plasma, platelets, erythrocytes, etc.), sputum, bronchoalveolar lavage, cultured cells (e.g., primary cultures, explants, and transformed cells), stool, urine, and the like. The biological sample is typically obtained from a eukaryotic organism, most preferably a mammal, such as a primate, e.g. a chimpanzee or a human; cattle; a dog; a cat; rodents, e.g., guinea pigs, rats, mice; a rabbit; or birds; a reptile; or fish. 'Biopsy' refers to the process of removing a tissue sample for diagnostic or prognostic assessment, as well as to the tissue sample itself. Any biopsy technique known in the art can be applied to the diagnostic and prognostic methods of the present invention. The biopsy technique applied will depend on the type of tissue to be assessed (e.g., lung, etc.), the size and type of tumor, and other factors. Representative biopsy techniques include, but are not limited to, resected biopsies, needle biopsies, surgical biopsies, and bone marrow biopsies. 'resected biopsy' refers to the removal of an entire tumor mass, normal tissue with smaller margins around the tumor mass. 'biopsy' refers to removal of wedge-shaped tissue from a tumor. Diagnosis or prognosis by endoscopic or radiographic guidance may require a 'core needle biopsy' or a 'fine needle aspiration biopsy', which typically obtains a cell suspension from within the target tissue. Biopsy techniques are discussed, for example, in Harrison' S PRINCIPLES of INTERNAL MEDICINE, kasper et al, 16 th edition, 2005, chapter 70, and section V, supra. The term 'overexpressed' or 'overexpressed' interchangeably refers to a protein or nucleic acid (RNA) that is normally translated or transcribed at a detectably greater level in cancer cells than in normal cells. The term includes overexpression due to transcription, post-transcriptional processing, translation, post-translational processing, cellular localization (e.g., organelles, cytoplasm, nucleus, cell surface), and RNA and protein stability compared to normal cells. Overexpression can be detected using conventional techniques for detecting mRNA (i.e., RT-PCR, PCR hybridization) or protein (i.e., ELISA, immunohistochemical techniques). Overexpression may be 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or more compared to normal cells. In some cases, overexpression is 1-fold, 2-fold, 3-fold, 4-fold, or higher levels of transcription or translation than normal cells. The term 'under-expressed (underexpress/underexpression)' or 'under-expressed' or 'down-regulated' interchangeably refers to a protein or nucleic acid that is translated or transcribed at a detectably lower level in cancer cells than in normal cells. The term includes under-expression due to transcription, post-transcriptional processing, translation, post-translational processing, cellular localization (e.g., organelles, cytoplasm, nucleus, cell surface), and RNA and protein stability as compared to controls. Under-expression can be detected using conventional techniques for detecting mRNA (i.e., RT-PCR, PCR hybridization) or protein (i.e., ELISA, immunohistochemical techniques). The under-expression may be 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or less compared to a control. In some cases, the under-expression is 1-fold, 2-fold, 3-fold, 4-fold, or lower level of transcription or translation than the control. The term 'differentially expressed' or 'differentially regulated' generally refers to proteins or nucleic acids that are over-expressed (up-regulated) or under-expressed (down-regulated) in one sample compared to at least one other sample (typically in a cancer patient compared to a sample of non-cancerous tissue in the context of the present invention). The term 'system' (real or abstract) describing a group of components comprises an entity in which each component interacts with or is associated with at least one other component within the entity. The terms 'polypeptide', 'peptide' and 'protein' are used interchangeably herein to refer to a polymer of amino acid residues. These terms apply to amino acid polymers in which one or more amino acid residues are artificial chemical mimics of the corresponding naturally occurring amino acid, as well as to naturally occurring amino acid polymers and non-naturally occurring amino acid polymers. The term 'amino acid' refers to naturally occurring and synthetic amino acids, as well as amino acid analogs and amino acid mimics that function in a manner similar to naturally occurring amino acids. Naturally occurring amino acids are those encoded by the genetic code, as well as those amino acids that are later modified, such as hydroxyproline, gamma-carboxyglutamic acid, and O-phosphoserine. Amino acid analogs refer to compounds that have the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid (i.e., an alpha carbon to which hydrogen, carboxyl, amino, and R groups are bound), such as homoserine, norleucine, methionine sulfoxide, methionine methyl sulfonium. Such analogs have modified R groups (e.g., norleucine) or modified peptide backbones, but retain the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid. Amino acid mimetics refers to compounds that have a structure that is different from the general chemical structure of an amino acid but that function in a manner similar to a naturally occurring amino acid. Amino acids may be referred to herein by their commonly known three-letter symbols or by the one-letter symbols recommended by the IUPAC-IUB biochemical nomenclature committee (Biochemical Nomenclature Commission). Likewise, nucleotides may be referred to by the single-letter code they commonly accept. With respect to amino acid sequences, the skilled artisan will recognize that individual substitutions, deletions, or additions to nucleic acid, peptide, polypeptide, or protein sequences that alter, add, or delete a single amino acid or a small percentage of amino acids in the coding sequence are 'conservatively modified variants' where the alteration results in the substitution of an amino acid with a chemically similar amino acid. Conservative substitution tables providing functionally similar amino acids are well known in the art. The conservatively modified variants are, in addition to, but do not exclude, polymorphic variants, interspecies homologs, and alleles of the invention. The following eight groups each contain amino acids that are conservative substitutions for one another: 1) Alanine (a), glycine (G); 2) Aspartic acid (D), glutamic acid (E); 3) Asparagine (N), glutamine (Q); 4) Arginine (R), lysine (K); 5) Isoleucine (I), leucine (L), methionine (M), valine (V); 6) Phenylalanine (F), tyrosine (Y), tryptophan (W); 7) Serine (S), threonine (T); and 8) cysteine (C), methionine (M). See, e.g., crititon (Criticon), protein (1984). When referring to a protein, nucleic acid, antibody or small molecule compound, the phrase 'specifically (or selectively) binds' refers to a binding reaction that generally determines the presence of a protein or nucleic acid (e.g., a differentially expressed gene of the invention) in a heterogeneous population of proteins or nucleic acids and other biological agents. In the case of antibodies, the specified antibodies can bind to a particular protein at least twice background and more typically more than 10 to 100 times background under the specified immunoassay conditions. Antibodies that specifically bind to an antibody under such conditions require a selection for their specificity for a particular protein. For example, polyclonal antibodies may be selected to obtain only those polyclonal antibodies that specifically immunoreact with the selected antigen and not with other proteins. This selection can be achieved by removing antibodies that cross-react with other molecules. A variety of immunoassay formats may be used to select antibodies that specifically immunoreact with a particular protein. For example, solid phase ELISA immunoassays are routinely used to select Antibodies that specifically immunoreact with a protein (see, e.g., halo (Harlow) and Lane), antibody experimental guidelines (Antibodies, A Laboratory Manual) (1988) for descriptions of immunoassay formats and conditions that can be used to determine specific immune responses. In the context of assays for test compounds that modulate a marker protein, the phrase 'functional effect' includes determining a parameter, such as a chemical or phenotype, that is indirectly or directly affected by a biomarker of the present invention. Thus, functional effects include, inter alia, ligand binding activity, transcriptional activation or inhibition, ability of cell proliferation, ability to migrate. 'functional effects' include in vitro, in vivo and ex vivo activities. 'Determining a functional effect' means an analysis, e.g. measuring physical and chemical or phenotypic effects, of a compound that is directed to increasing or decreasing a parameter that is indirectly or directly affected by a biomarker of the present invention. Such functional effects may be measured by any means known to those skilled in the art, such as changes in spectral characteristics (e.g., fluorescence, absorbance, refractive index); hydrodynamic forces (e.g., shape), chromatography; or solubility characteristics of proteins; ligand binding assays, e.g., binding to antibodies; measuring the transcriptional activation of the inducible marker or markers; measuring a change in enzyme activity; the ability to increase or decrease cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, and the change in cell surface markers was measured. Functional effects can be assessed by a number of means known to those skilled in the art, such as microscopy for quantitative or qualitative measurement of changes in morphological features, measurement of changes in RNA or protein levels of other genes expressed in placental tissue, measurement of RNA stability, identification of downstream or reporter gene expression (CAT, luciferase, β -gal, GFP, etc.), e.g., via chemiluminescence, fluorescence, colorimetric reactions, antibody binding, inducible markers, etc. 'Inhibitors', 'activators' and 'modulators' of the markers are used to refer to activating, inhibitory or modulating molecules identified using in vitro and in vivo assays of cancer biomarkers. Inhibitors are compounds that bind, for example, to partially or completely block activity, reduce, prevent, delay activation, inactivate, or down-regulate the activity or expression of a cancer biomarker. An 'activator' is a compound, e.g., an agonist, that increases, opens, initiates, promotes, increases activation, sensitizes, agonizes, or upregulates the activity of a cancer biomarker. Inhibitors, activators or modulators also include genetically modified versions of cancer biomarkers (e.g., versions with altered activity), naturally occurring and synthetic ligands, antagonists, agonists, antibodies, peptides, cyclic peptides, nucleic acids, antisense molecules, ribozymes, RNAi and siRNA molecules, small organic molecules, and the like. Such assays for inhibitors and activators include, for example, expressing a cancer biomarker in vitro, in a cell or cell extract, applying a putative modulator compound, and then determining the functional effect on activity, as described above. 'Probes' refers to polynucleotides that are at least eight (8) nucleotides in length and that form a hybrid structure with a target sequence due to complementarity of at least one sequence in the probe to a sequence in the target region. The polynucleotide may be composed of DNA and/or RNA. In certain embodiments, the probes are detectably labeled, as discussed in more detail herein. The size of the probes may vary significantly. Generally, the probe is, for example, at least 8 to 15 nucleotides in length. Other probes are, for example, at least 20, 30 or 40 nucleotides long. Other probes are slightly longer, at least, for example, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 nucleotides long. Other probes are also longer and are at least, for example, 100, 150, 200 or more nucleotides long. The probe may also be any specific length falling within the foregoing ranges. Preferably, the probe does not contain sequences complementary to the sequences of the primers used for the target sequence during the polymerase chain reaction. The term 'complementary' or 'complementarity' is used in reference to a polynucleotide (i.e., a nucleotide sequence) related by the base pair rule. For example, the sequence 'A-G-T' is complementary to the sequence 'T-C-A'. Complementarity may be 'partial' in which only some of the bases of nucleic acids match according to the base pairing rules. Alternatively, there may be 'complete' or 'complete' complementarity between the nucleic acids. The degree of complementarity between nucleic acid strands has a significant effect on the efficiency and strength of hybridization between nucleic acid strands. The term 'oligonucleotide' or 'polynucleotide' refers to a polymeric form of nucleotides of any length, either deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides. These terms include, but are not limited to, single-, double-, or triple-stranded DNA, genomic DNA, cDNA, RNA, DNA-RNA hybrids, or polymers comprising purine and pyrimidine bases or other naturally chemically, biochemically modified non-natural or derivatized nucleotide bases. An 'amplification detection assay' is a primer pair and matched probe that define an amplicon, wherein the primer pair flank a target nucleic acid region (typically a target gene), and wherein the probe binds to the amplicon. The terms 'gene variant' and 'nucleotide variant' are used interchangeably herein to refer to a change or alteration at a particular locus relative to a reference human gene or cDNA sequence, including, but not limited to, nucleotide base deletions, insertions, inversions, and substitutions in coding and non-coding regions. Deletions may be deletions of a single nucleotide base, a portion or region of the nucleotide sequence of a gene, or the entire gene sequence. The insertion may be an insertion of one or more nucleotide bases. A 'gene variant' or 'nucleotide variant' may occur in the transcriptional regulatory region, the untranslated region of an mRNA, an exon, an intron, or an exon/intron junction. 'Gene variants' or 'nucleotide variants' may or may not produce stop codons, frame shifts, amino acid deletions, altered spliced forms of gene transcripts, or altered amino acid sequences. The term 'gene' refers to a polynucleotide (e.g., a DNA segment) that encodes a polypeptide and includes regions preceding and following the coding region as well as intervening sequences (introns) between individual coding segments (exons). The parent Gene or protein sequence is presented in the form of an Entrez Gene ID or accession number. For example, ZNF479 Entrez Gene ID is 90827. If any changes have been made to the sequence in the Gene ID in Entrez, then a decimal point and change number indication (e.g., 90827.1) follows the Gene ID. Also for example, TPM1 has accession number NM_004304. The term 'allele' or 'gene allele' is used herein to refer generally to a naturally occurring gene having a reference sequence or a gene containing a particular nucleotide variant. As used herein, a 'haplotype' is a combination of gene (nucleotide) variants in a region of mRNA or genomic DNA on a chromosome found in an individual. Thus, a haplotype comprises many genetically linked polymorphic variants that are typically inherited together as a unit. As used herein, the term 'amino acid variant' is used to refer to an amino acid change relative to a reference human protein sequence that results from a 'gene variant' or 'nucleotide variant' of a reference human gene encoding a reference protein. The term 'amino acid variant' is intended to encompass not only single amino acid substitutions, but also amino acid deletions, insertions and other significant changes in the amino acid sequence of the reference protein. Variants of the invention are described by the following nomenclature: [ original amino acid residue/position/substituted amino acid residue ]. For example, a leucine substituted arginine at position 76 is denoted R76L. The term 'genotype' as used herein means the character of a nucleotide at a particular nucleotide variant marker (or locus) in either allele or both alleles of a gene (or particular chromosomal region). The nucleotides at the locus or equivalent thereof in one or both alleles form the genotype of the gene at the locus, with respect to the particular nucleotide position of the gene of interest. Genotypes may be homozygous or heterozygous. Thus, 'genotyping' means determining the genotype, i.e., the nucleotide at a particular locus. Genotyping may also be performed by determining amino acid variants at specific positions in a protein, which may be used to derive corresponding nucleotide variants. A probe set generally refers to a primer set, typically a primer pair, and/or a detectably labeled probe for detecting a genetic variation of a target. Primer pairs are used in an amplification reaction to define amplicons spanning the region of genetic variation of interest for each of the genes described above. The amplicon panel is detected by a set of matched probes. In one exemplary embodiment, the invention is a set of TaqMan TM (Roche molecular systems, inc. (Roche Molecular Systems, pleasanton, calif.) assays for detecting a set of genetic variations of interest for use in the methods of the invention. In one embodiment, the set of probes is a set of primers used to generate amplicons that are detected by a nucleic acid sequencing reaction (the next generation sequencing reaction). For example, in these embodiments, ampliSEQ TM (life technologies/Ion torrents, carlsbad, CA) or TruSEQTM (Illumina, san Diego, CA) technologies may be used. In other embodiments, two or more probes are primer pairs. Modified ribonucleotides or deoxyribonucleotides refer to molecules that can be used in place of the naturally occurring bases in nucleic acids and include, but are not limited to, modified purines and pyrimidines; rare bases; a convertible nucleoside; structural analogs of purines and pyrimidines; labeled, derivatized and modified nucleosides and nucleotides; bound nucleosides and nucleotides; a sequence modifier; a terminal modifier; a spacer modifier; and nucleotides with backbone modifications, including, but not limited to, ribose modified nucleotides, phosphoramidates, phosphorothioates, phosphonamates, methylphosphonates, methylphosphonous amides, methylphosphonic amates, 5' -beta-cyanoethylphosphorous amides, methylenephosphonates, phosphorodithioates, peptide nucleic acids, achiral and neutral internucleotide linkages. 'Hybridization' refers to the binding between nucleic acids. The hybridization conditions may vary depending on the sequence homology of the nucleic acids to be bound. Thus, stringent conditions are used if the sequence homology between the nucleic acids under test is high. If the sequence homology is low, mild conditions are used. When hybridization conditions are stringent, hybridization specificity increases, and this increase in hybridization specificity causes a decrease in yield of non-specific hybridization products. However, under mild hybridization conditions, the hybridization specificity decreases, and this decrease in hybridization specificity causes an increase in the yield of non-specific hybridization products. 'Stringent conditions' refers to conditions under which a probe will hybridize to its target subsequence (typically in a complex mixture of nucleic acids) but not to other sequences. Stringent conditions are sequence-dependent and will be different from one case to another. Longer sequences hybridize specifically at higher temperatures. Detailed guidance on nucleic acid hybridization can be found in Dijisen (Tijssen), 'biochemistry and molecular biology techniques- -nucleic acid probe hybridization (Techniques in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology-Hybridization with Nucleic Probes),' reviews of hybridization principles and nucleic acid analysis strategies (Overview of principles of hybridization AND THE STRATEGY of nucleic ACID ASSAYS) '(1993). Typically, stringent conditions are selected to be about 5 ℃ to 10 ℃ lower than the thermal melting point (T m) of the specific sequence at the defined ionic strength pH. T m is the temperature (at defined intensities, pH values and nuclear concentrations) at which 50% of the probe complementary to the target hybridizes to the target sequence at equilibrium (50% of the probe is occupied at equilibrium at T m when the target sequence is present in excess). Stringent conditions may also be achieved with the addition of destabilizing agents such as formamide. For selective or specific hybridization, the positive signal is at least twice background, preferably 10 times background hybridization. Exemplary stringent hybridization conditions can be as follows: 50% formamide, 5 XSSC and 1% SDS, incubated at 42℃or 5 XSSC, 1% SDS, incubated at 65℃and washed at 65℃in 0.2 XSSC and 0.1% SDS. If the polypeptides encoded by the nucleic acids are substantially identical, then the nucleic acids that do not hybridize to each other under stringent conditions remain substantially identical. This occurs, for example, when a copy of a nucleic acid is formed using the maximum code degeneracy permitted by the genetic code. In such cases, the nucleic acid typically hybridizes under moderately stringent hybridization conditions. Exemplary 'moderately stringent hybridization conditions' include hybridization in a buffer of 40% formamide, 1M NaCl, 1% SDS at 37℃and washing in 1 XSSC at 45 ℃. Positive hybridization is at least twice background. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize that alternative hybridization and wash conditions may be used to provide conditions of similar stringency. Other guidelines for determining hybridization parameters are provided in a number of references, for example, and in the latest protocols for molecular biology, inc. (Current Protocols in Molecular Biology) edition. Hybridization between nucleic acids can be performed between DNA molecules, between DNA molecules and RNA molecules, and between RNA molecules and RNA molecules. 'Mutein' or 'variant' refers to a polynucleotide or polypeptide that differs from the wild-type or most prevalent form in a population of individuals by the exchange, deletion or insertion of one or more nucleotides or amino acids, respectively. The number of nucleotides or amino acids exchanged, deleted or inserted may be 1,2,3, 4,5, 6,7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or more, such as 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 or 50. The term mutein may also encompass translocations, such as fusion of polypeptides encoded by the ALK and TPM1 genes (TPM 1/ALK). 'Gene fusion' refers to chimeric genomic DNA resulting from the fusion of at least a portion of a first gene with a portion of a second gene. The point of transition between the sequence from the first gene in the fusion and the sequence from the second gene in the fusion is referred to as the 'breakpoint' or 'fusion point'. Transcription of the gene fusion results in chimeric mRNA. 'Single nucleotide polymorphism' or 'SNP' refers to a variation in DNA sequence that occurs when a single nucleotide (A, T, G or C) in the genome differs between paired chromosomes of a member of an organism species or a human. 'Mutation' is defined herein as a specific change at a genomic position, namely: chromosome, start, stop, reference base, substitution base, variant type (SNP, INS, DEL), and the like. 'Annotation' is defined herein as a set of transcript-specific properties that describe the effects of mutations, namely: genes, transcripts, variant classifications, variant changes, variant codon positions, and the like. 'Primer' or 'primer sequence' refers to an oligonucleotide that hybridizes to a target nucleic acid sequence (e.g., a DNA template to be amplified) to initiate a nucleic acid synthesis reaction. The primer may be a DNA oligonucleotide, an RNA oligonucleotide or a chimeric sequence. Primers may contain natural, synthetic or modified nucleotides. The upper and lower limits of primer length are determined empirically. The lower limit of primer length is the minimum length required to form a stable duplex with the target nucleic acid under the nucleic acid amplification reaction conditions upon hybridization. Very short primers (typically less than 3-4 nucleotides long) do not form thermodynamically stable duplex with the target nucleic acid under such hybridization conditions. The upper limit is generally determined by the possibility of forming a duplex in a region other than the predetermined nucleic acid sequence in the target nucleic acid. Generally, suitable primers are in the range of about 10 to about 40 nucleotides in length. In certain embodiments, for example, the primers may be 10-40, 15-30, or 10-20 nucleotides long. When placed under appropriate conditions, the primers can serve as starting points for synthesis on the polynucleotide sequence. The primer will be fully or substantially complementary to a region of the target polynucleotide sequence to be copied. Thus, the primer will bind to the complementary region of the target sequence under conditions conducive to hybridization. After addition of suitable reactants, including but not limited to polymerase, nucleotide triphosphates, etc., the primer is extended by a polymerization reagent to form a copy of the target sequence. The primer may be single stranded or alternatively may be partially double stranded. 'Detecting', 'detectable' and grammatical equivalents thereof refer to the manner in which the presence and/or amount and/or identity of a target nucleic acid sequence is determined. In some embodiments, the detection is performed and the target nucleic acid sequence is amplified. In other embodiments, sequencing of the target nucleic acid may be characterized as 'detecting' the target nucleic acid. Labels attached to probes may include any of a variety of different labels known in the art that can be detected by, for example, chemical or physical means. Labels that may be attached to the probes may include, for example, fluorescent and luminescent materials. 'Amplification' and grammatical equivalents thereof refer to any method by which at least a portion of a nucleic acid sequence of interest replicates in a template-dependent manner, including, but not limited to, a broad range of techniques for linearly or exponentially amplifying nucleic acid sequences. Exemplary ways of performing the amplification step include Ligase Chain Reaction (LCR), ligase Detection Reaction (LDR), ligation followed by Q-replicase amplification, PCR, primer extension, strand Displacement Amplification (SDA), hyperbranched strand displacement amplification, multiple Displacement Amplification (MDA), nucleic acid strand-based amplification (NASBA), two-step multiplex amplification, rolling Circle Amplification (RCA), recombinase-polymerase amplification (RPA) (push-stokes company (TwistDx, cambridg, UK) of cambridge, england), and self-sustained sequence replication (3 SR), including multiplex versions or combinations thereof, such as, but not limited to OLA/PCR, PCR/OLA, LDR/PCR, PCR/LDR, LCR/PCR, PCR/LCR (also known as combined chain reaction-CCR), and the like. Descriptions of such techniques can be found in Sambrook et al, molecular cloning (Molecular Cloning), 3 rd edition; ausbel (Ausbel) et al; PCR primer: laboratory Manual (PCR PRIMER: A Laboratory Manual), difenbach (Diffenbach), cold spring harbor Press (Cold Spring Harbor Press) (1995); electronic protocols book (The Electronic Protocol Book), often Bioscience (Chang Bioscience) (2002), su (Msuih) et al, clinical microbiology (J.Clin. Micro.) 34:501-07 (1996); nucleic acid protocol handbook (The Nucleic Acid Protocols Handbook), r.rayleigh (r.rapley) code, humana Press, totowa, n.j.) (2002), among others. Analysis of the nucleic acid markers may be performed using techniques known in the art, including, but not limited to, sequence analysis and electrophoretic analysis. Non-limiting examples of sequence analysis include Ma Kesai M-Gilbert sequencing (Maxam-Gilbert sequencing), mulberg sequencing (Sanger sequencing), capillary array DNA sequencing, thermal cycle sequencing (Sier (Sears) et al, biotechnology (Biotechniques), 13:626-633 (1992)), solid phase sequencing (Zimmerman et al, methods of molecular cell biology (Methods Mol Cell Biol), 3:39-42 (1992)), sequencing followed by mass spectrometry such as matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/MS; fu et al, nature biotechnology (Nature Biotechnol), 16:381-384 (1998)), and hybridization sequencing. Odd (che) et al, science, 274:610-614 (1996); delmarnaz (Drmanac) et al, science, 260:1649-1652 (1993); delmarnaz et al, nature biotechnology, 16:54-58 (1998). Non-limiting examples of electrophoretic analysis include slab gel electrophoresis (e.g., agarose or polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis), capillary electrophoresis, and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. In addition, the next generation sequencing methods can be performed using commercially available kits and instruments (from companies such as life technologies/ion torrent PGM or Proton, company HiSEQ or MiSEQ of company Lu Mi, and Roche (Roche)/454 next generation sequencing systems). In some embodiments, the amount of probe that gives a fluorescent signal in response to excitation light is generally related to the amount of nucleic acid produced in the amplification reaction. Thus, in some embodiments, the amount of fluorescent signal is related to the amount of product formed in the amplification reaction. In such embodiments, the amount of amplification product may thus be measured by measuring the intensity of the fluorescent signal from the fluorescent indicator. 'Detectably labeled probes' or 'detector probes' refer to molecules used in amplification reactions, typically for quantitative or real-time PCR analysis, as well as endpoint analysis. The detector probes may be used to monitor amplification of a target nucleic acid sequence. In some embodiments, the detector probes present in the amplification reaction are suitable for monitoring the amount of amplicon produced over time. Such detector probes include, but are not limited to, 5' -exonuclease assays (described hereinProbes (see also U.S. Pat. No. 5,538,848) various stem-loop molecular beacons (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,103,476 and 5,925,517 and sub-Ji (Tyagi) and Kramer (Kramer), 1996, nature Biotechnology 14:303-308), stem-free or linear beacons (see, e.g., WO 99/21881), PNA Molecular Beacons TM (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,355,421 and 6,593,091), linear PNA beacons (see, e.g., cooki Sta (Kubista) et al, 2001,SPIE 4264:53-58), non-FRET probes (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 6,150,097),The/Amplifluor TM probe (U.S. Pat. No. 6,548,250), the stem-loop and double-helix scorpion type probe (cable Li Nasi (Solinas) et al, 2001, nucleic acids research (Nucleic ACIDS RESEARCH) 29: E96 and U.S. Pat. No. 6,589,743), the convex-loop probe (U.S. Pat. No. 6,590,091), the pseudoknot probe (U.S. Pat. No. 6,589,250), the, Cyclized (cyclicon) (U.S. patent No. 6,383,752), MGB Eclipse TM probe (ebox bioscience corporation (Epoch Biosciences)), hairpin probe (U.S. patent No. 6,596,490), peptide Nucleic Acid (PNA) photoprobe, self-assembled nanoparticle probes, and ferrocene modified probes, such as described in U.S. patent No. 6,485,901; Ma Halang, et al (Mhlanga), 2001, methods 25:463-471; wheatstone et al (Whitcombe), 1999, nature Biotechnology 17:804-807; isaacson (Isacsson) et al, 2000, molecular cell probes (Molecular Cell Probes), 14:321-328; ston Mo Weike (Svanvik) et al, 2000, analytical biochemistry (Anal biochem.) 281:26-35; Wolff (Wolffs) et al, 2001, biotechnology (Biotechniques) 766:769-771; tersokas (Tsourkas) et al, 2002, nucleic acids research (Nucleic ACIDS RESEARCH), 30:4208-4215; lishili (Riccelli) et al, 2002, nucleic acids research 30:4088-4093; zhang et al, 2002 Shanghai (Shanghai). 34:329-332; maxwell et al, 2002, journal of American society of chemistry (J.Am. Chem. Soc.) 124:9606-9612; Braun (Broude) et al, 2002, trends in biotechnology (Trends Biotechnol.) 20:249-56; yellow (Huang) et al, 2002, toxicological chemistry study (chem. Res. Protocol.) 15:118-126; and Yu (Yu) et al, 2001, journal of American society of chemistry 14:11155-11161. The detector probe may also include quenchers including, but not limited to, black hole quenchers (biological hunting), iowa Black (IDT), QSY quenchers (Molecular Probes) and dimethylaminoazobenzoyl (Dabsyl) and Dabcel sulfonate/formate quenchers (Epoch). The detector probe may also include two probes, where for example a fluorescent agent is on one probe and a quencher is on the other probe, where the two probes hybridize together on the target to quench the signal, or where hybridization on the target alters the signal characteristics by altering the fluorescence. The detector probe may also comprise a sulfonate derivative of a fluorescein dye having a SO 3 instead of a carboxylate group, a phosphoramidite form of fluorescein, a phosphoramidite form of CY5 (commercially available, for example, from Amersham). In some embodiments, an intercalating chelator label, such as ethidium bromide,Green I (molecular probes Co.) and(Molecular probes, inc.), thereby allowing real-time or end-point observation of the amplified products in the absence of detector probes. In some embodiments, real-time visualization may involve insertion of a detector probe and may employ a sequence-based detector probe. In some embodiments, the detector probe is at least partially quenched when not hybridized to the complementary sequence in the amplification reaction, and is at least partially unquenched when hybridized to the complementary sequence in the amplification reaction. In some embodiments, the Tm of the detector probes taught by the present invention is 63-69 ℃, but it should be appreciated that routine experimentation may result in detector probes having other tms guided by the teachings of the present invention. In some embodiments, the probe may further comprise various modifications, such as minor groove binders (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 6,486,308), for further providing desired thermodynamic characteristics. In some embodiments, detection may be via any of a variety of mobility-related analysis techniques based on differences in migration rates between different analytes. Exemplary motility-related analysis techniques include electrophoresis, chromatography, mass spectrometry, sedimentation (e.g., gradient centrifugation), field flow fractionation, multi-stage extraction techniques, and the like. In some embodiments, the mobility probe may hybridize to the amplification product and the identity of the target nucleic acid sequence is determined via mobility-dependent analysis techniques that elute the mobility probe, as described, for example, in published P.C.T. applications WO04/46344 (Roson Blamer (Rosenblum) et al) and WO01/92579 (Wen Ci (Wenz) et al). In some embodiments, detection may be achieved by various microarrays and related software, such as, inter alia, applied biosystems (Applied Biosystems) array systems with applied biosystems 1700 chemiluminescent microarray analyzers and other commercially available array systems available from Freon (Affymetrix), agilent (Agilent), ill Lu Mi (Illumina) and Ammacsia biosciences (Amersham Biosciences) (see also Gri (Gerry) et al, journal of molecular biology (J.mol. Biol.) 292:251-62, 1999; de Bellis et al, miniwa Biotechnology (Minerva Biotec) 14:247-52, 2002; and Steles (Stears) et al, nature medical science (Nat. Med.) 9:14045, including journal of pressure, 2003). It will also be appreciated that the detection may comprise a reporter gene that is incorporated into the reaction product as part of the labeled primer or due to the binding of labeled dntps during amplification, or linked to the reaction product, such as, but not limited to, via a hybridization tag complement comprising the reporter gene or via a linker arm that is integral or linked to the reaction product. Detection of unlabeled reaction products, for example using mass spectrometry, is also within the scope of the present teachings. 'Aberration' means a genomic structural or change in DNA. Examples include: overexpression/underexpression; copy number amplification/deletion; mutation; a gene fusion; etc. 'Driving event' means genomic aberration, representing a mutation, fusion or copy number peak of acquired function (GoF). 'Reproducible' means that the event occurred in 3 or more tumor samples. 'Mitelman' means a database of chromosomal aberrations and gene fusions in cancers artificially managed from the literature. http: /(go. Gl/PnXMT) Gene fusions Table 1: gene fusions Table 2: gene fusions Table 3: gene fusions The present invention provides novel gene fusions and gene fusion variants (i.e., different breakpoint positions on one or both of the partner genes) selected from those shown in tables 1-3, 19 and 22 of the gene fusion, such as TPM1/ALK、PRKAR1A/ALK、NCOA1/ALK、LPP/CASR、MDM2/EGFR、FGFR3/ELAVL3、B2M/GNAS、DOCK8/JAK2、HNF1B/NOTCH1、NFASC/NTRK1、SSBP2/NTRK1、SQSTM1/NTRK1、TBL1XR1/PIK3CA、AKAP13/RET、FKBP15/RET、TBL1XR1/RET、CEP85L/ROS1、CLCN6/RAF1、TRAK1/RAF1、PRKACA/AKT1、PRKACA/AKT2、MLL/FYN、ECHD1/FYN、TTC13/JAK2、SEC16A/NOTCH1、ERC1/RET、GTF2IRD1/ALK、HTATSF1/BRS3、CDH1/CCDC132、CCDC132/CDH1、ERBB2/SLC29A3、MET/TFG;TFG/MET、NOTCH2/MNDA、IRF2BP2/NTRK1、EIF2C2/PTK2、RARA/HOXB3、STAT3/ETV4、 and GFAP/VIM; VIM/GFAP, TOP1/C17orf64, and TP53/KIAA0753. As a result of these findings, the present invention provides isolated gene fusion nucleic acids and sequences complementary thereto, amplicons, transcripts, reaction mixtures, and probes that specifically recognize nucleic acid sequences of gene fusions, sequences complementary thereto, amplicons, and transcripts. The invention further encompasses antisense nucleotides for use in the treatment of a related disease. Tables 1-3, 19 and 22 provide a list of gene fusions (gene a/gene B), indicating the genes involved (gene a and gene B), chromosome location, breakpoint location, fusion type and distance. The gene fusion was shown together with the related TCGA disease (cancer Genome map (THE CANCER Genome Atlas)). Cancer is shown in 3-4 letter abbreviations, which are set forth in more detail in the diagnostics section. In general, tables 1-3, 19 and 22 provide the correlation of one or more novel gene fusions and/or gene fusions with TCGA disease. For example, table 19 presents novel gene fusions, and table 22 presents novel correlations of gene fusions with TCGA disease. Tables 4-6, 20 and 23 provide the breakpoint sequences of the gene fusions in tables 1-3, 19 and 22. The breakpoint sequence was identified as SEQ ID NO:1-257. Analysis and kit In certain embodiments, assays and methods of detection are provided. Methods for detecting gene fusions provided by definition are known in the art. As non-limiting examples, the assays may include 5' nuclease PCR assays (applied biosystems, inc. (Applied Biosystems, foster City, calif.), next generation sequencing assays (ion torrent, calif., company Lu Mi, san Diego, calif.), or microarray assays (Skotahm (Skotaheim) et al, molecular Cancer 2009, 8:5). In at least one embodiment, the assay or method comprises at least one primer or probe that is complementary to or encodes the gene fusion and/or breakpoint in tables 1-6. In at least one embodiment, assays and methods for quantifying the amount of expression of a gene fusion are provided. The method may involve quantitative expression of one or more exons. For example, taqMan TM gene expression analysis can be designed for a set of known fusion transcripts for quantitative analysis. The analysis may be designed such that the primers and probes span the breakpoint region, although in certain illustrative embodiments the primers and probes are not placed directly on the breakpoint. In certain embodiments, the invention provides a primer, a probe, or a probe or primer set that specifically recognizes one or more of the gene fusions and/or breakpoint disclosed herein. In one embodiment, the invention provides a composition and a kit comprising a set of probes that specifically recognize a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22 and/or a breakpoint in tables 4-6, 20 and 23. The probe set may be, for example, an amplification primer set. In another embodiment, provided herein is a composition comprising one primer set flanking a gene fusion in a target nucleic acid selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22. The reaction mixture of this embodiment may further comprise a detector probe that binds to either side of the breakpoint in the gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22, or to a binding region spanning the breakpoint in the gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22. The reaction mixture, including or not including the detector probe, may further include a polymerase, dntps, and/or uracil DNA deglycosylating enzyme (UDG). Polymerase and UDG are not typically from human sources. The reaction mixture may further comprise a target nucleic acid, e.g., a human target nucleic acid. The human target nucleic acid may be isolated, for example, from a biological sample from an individual suspected of having cancer. In another embodiment, provided herein is a qPCR assay, such as a TaqMan TM assay or MolecularBeacons TM assay, that specifically amplifies and detects a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 1-257. The invention also provides an isolated nucleic acid comprising at least one nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-257. The isolated nucleic acid may include a first primer on the 5' end. Furthermore, the nucleic acid may be single-stranded or double-stranded. In other embodiments, the invention provides a kit comprising a detector probe and/or a set of probes, e.g., an amplification primer set, that specifically recognizes nucleic acids comprising the breakpoint of the gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19, and 22. For example, in certain embodiments, the detector probes or amplification primer sets are designed to amplify and/or detect a nucleic acid comprising SEQ ID NO: 1-257. The kit may further comprise components from the amplification reaction mixture, such as a polymerase (typically not from human origin), dntps and/or UDG, in another container or in the same container. In addition, the kit may include a control nucleic acid. For example, the control nucleic acid may comprise a sequence comprising a breakpoint in a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22. In some embodiments, a kit is provided that encompasses at least 2 primer pairs and 2 detectably labeled probes. In these non-limiting examples, 2 primer pairs and/or 2 detectably labeled probes form 2 amplification detection assays. Kits of the invention may also comprise instructions for performing one or more methods described herein and/or descriptions of one or more compositions or reagents described herein. The instructions and/or descriptions may be in printed form and may be included in a kit insert. The kit may also include a written description of the internet location providing such instructions or descriptions. In some embodiments, the kits and assays comprise one or more probes that specifically recognize a target (e.g., a gene fusion nucleic acid sequence). In at least one embodiment, the kits and assays are diagnostic kits and assays. A kit is provided comprising a probe set (e.g., an amplification primer set) that specifically recognizes a nucleic acid comprising a breakpoint from tables 4-6, 20, and 23. The kit may further comprise components from the amplification reaction mixture, such as a polymerase (typically not from human origin), dntps and/or UDG, in another container or in the same container. In addition, the kit may include a control nucleic acid. For example, the control nucleic acid can include a sequence comprising a breakpoint selected from tables 4-6, 20, and 23. In another embodiment, a gene fusion is provided comprising at least one of the breakpoint in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. In some embodiments, a reaction mixture and a kit are provided. In some embodiments, the kit encompasses a detectable probe that selectively binds to a gene fusion. In some embodiments, the gene fusion is any one of the gene fusions in table 4, table 5, table 6, table 20, or table 23. Thus, in some embodiments, a kit is provided that encompasses a reaction mixture that selectively binds to a gene fusion, any one of the gene fusions in table 4, table 5, table 6, table 20, or table 23, and a detectable probe. Diagnostics Methods of diagnosing, treating, and detecting gene fusions and related diseases are contemplated herein. The method may comprise detecting a gene fusion in a sample of the subject. The subject sample may be any body tissue or body fluid that includes nucleic acid from the subject. In certain embodiments, the sample will be a blood sample comprising circulating tumor cells or cell-free DNA. In other embodiments, the sample may be tissue, such as cancerous tissue. The cancer tissue may be from tumor tissue and may be freshly frozen or formalin fixed, paraffin embedded (FFPE). The disease may be cancer or tumor. Cancers may include, but are not limited to, melanoma, cervical cancer, pancreatic cancer, head and neck squamous cancer, lung adenocarcinoma, colon adenocarcinoma, uterine cancer, ovarian cancer, glioblastoma, low-grade glioma, lung adenocarcinoma, thyroid cancer, and gastric cancer. The cancer may include, but is not limited to, bladder cancer, breast cancer, cervical cell cancer, colon adenocarcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, renal papillary cell carcinoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, brain low-grade glioma, liver hepatocellular carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung carcinoma, ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, prostate adenocarcinoma, rectal adenocarcinoma, skin melanoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, thyroid cancer, and endometrial cancer of the uterus body. As used herein, blca=bladder cancer, brca=breast cancer, CESC =cervical cell cancer, coad=colon adenocarcinoma, gbm=glioblastoma multiforme, hnsc=head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, KIRK =clear cell renal cell carcinoma, KIRP =renal renal papillary cell carcinoma, laml=acute myelogenous leukemia, lgg=brain low-grade glioma, LIHC =liver hepatocellular carcinoma, luad=lung adenocarcinoma, lucc=squamous cell lung carcinoma, ov=ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, prad=prostate adenocarcinoma, read=rectal adenocarcinoma, skcm=skin melanoma, stad=gastric adenocarcinoma, thca=thyroid carcinoma, and ucec=endometrial carcinoma. In some embodiments, a method of detecting a novel gene variant or gene fusion is provided, the method comprising a reaction mixture, wherein the novel gene variant or gene fusion is detected by generating an extension product. In another embodiment, the invention provides diagnostic and therapeutic targets utilizing the disclosed gene fusions and gene variants. Gene fusions, gene variants, and related disease conditions provide targets for both diagnosis and treatment. For example, the presence, absence, or increased or decreased expression of a gene fusion target or gene variant may be used to diagnose a disease condition or may be used to predict or detect a disease condition. In at least one embodiment, the gene fusion or gene variant may have a high incidence (frequency), a moderate incidence, or a low incidence in a particular cancer. In at least one embodiment, the gene fusion or gene variant may have a high frequency in one cancer or tumor and a low or moderate incidence in another cancer or tumor. In at least one embodiment, the gene fusion or gene variant may have a medium or low frequency associated with cancer or tumor. In at least one embodiment, low or medium frequency gene fusions or gene variants can be used in combination with one or more different high frequency biomarkers of cancer to aid in diagnosing, predicting, or identifying a predisposition to a disease. The methods can be used to screen patients for cancer or to predict the relative hope of a particular outcome of cancer. For example, the presence of BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations can be analyzed in combination with the gene fusion JAK2/TTC13 of breast cancer. A method of detecting cancer is provided comprising amplifying a nucleic acid spanning a breakpoint in a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22, e.g., the nucleic acid may comprise a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-257; and detecting the presence of the nucleic acid, wherein the presence of the nucleic acid is indicative of the presence of cancer in the sample. In another method, provided herein is a method of detecting cancer comprising generating a nucleic acid comprising a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-257, and detecting the presence of said nucleic acid, wherein the presence of said nucleic acid is indicative of the presence of cancer or cancer cells in the sample. The amplicon generally includes primers that are extended to form the amplicon. The cancer is selected from bladder cancer, breast cancer, cervical cell carcinoma, colon adenocarcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, kidney papillary cell carcinoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, brain low-grade glioma, liver hepatocellular carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung carcinoma, ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, prostate adenocarcinoma, rectal adenocarcinoma, skin melanoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, thyroid cancer, and endometrial cancer of the uterus body. In another embodiment is a method of detecting a cancer selected from bladder cancer, breast cancer, cervical cell cancer, colon adenocarcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, renal papillary cell carcinoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, brain low-grade glioma, liver hepatocellular carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung carcinoma, ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, prostate adenocarcinoma, rectal adenocarcinoma, skin melanoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, thyroid cancer, and endometrial cancer in a sample by detecting the presence of a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19, and 22. Novel gene fusion Although some of the gene fusions have been previously reported, many variations of gene fusions are provided herein in which the breakpoint is different and/or not previously known. Non-limiting examples of gene fusions where the breakpoint is different and/or not previously known include ：TPM1/ALK、PRKAR1A/ALK、NCOA1/ALK、LPP/CASR、MDM2/EGFR、FGFR3/ELAVL3、B2M/GNAS、DOCK8/JAK2、HNF1B/NOTCH1、NFASC/NTRK1、SSBP2/NTRK1、SQSTM1/NTRK1、TBL1XR1/PIK3CA、AKAP13/RET、FKBP15/RET、TBL1XR1/RET、CEP85L/ROS1、CLCN6/RAF1、TRAK1/RAF1、PRKACA/AKT1、PRKACA/AKT2、MLL/FYN、ECHD1/FYN and TTC13/JAK2 are having the sequences set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 1-257. Also provided herein are a number of gene fusion variants associated with one or more cancers. Cancer correlation Presented herein are novel gene fusions associated with cancer. Some of the gene fusions may have been associated with a previous specific cancer or disease condition. The methods herein have identified new correlations that can be used to aid in the diagnosis and/or treatment of specific cancers. The gene fusions shown in tables 1-3, 19 and 22 provide genes associated with the fusion and the association of the gene fusion with one or more specific cancers. For example, fusion PRKACA/AKT1 has been shown to be associated with colon adenocarcinoma and endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma. The gene fusions shown in table 3 are previously known gene fusions that have been shown to be associated with new cancers. For example, SEC16A/NOTCH1 has been previously identified as being associated with breast cancer. The current approach identifies the association of the gene fusion SEC16A/NOTCH1 with thyroid adenocarcinoma. In addition, ERC1/RET was previously identified as being associated with thyroid cancer. The current approach identifies the association of the gene fusion ERC1/RET with invasive breast cancer (see tables 3 and 6). Reaction mixtures and amplicons In another embodiment, the invention provides a reaction mixture comprising a probe or a set of probes that specifically recognizes a gene fusion selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22. The probe set may be, for example, an amplification primer set or a labeled probe. In another embodiment, provided herein is a reaction mixture comprising one primer set flanking a gene fusion in a target nucleic acid selected from tables 1-3, table 19, and table 22. For example, the primer set may each bind to a target sequence in the human genome within 1000, 750, 500, 250, 100, 90, 80, 75, 70, 65, 50, or 25 nucleotides of opposite sides of one of the fusion breakpoint identified in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. The reaction mixture of this embodiment may further comprise detector probes that bind to either side of the breakpoint in the gene fusions selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22, or bind to a binding region spanning the breakpoint in the gene fusions selected from tables 1-3, 19 and 22, including embodiments wherein the breakpoint is identified in tables 4-6, 20 and 23. In an exemplary embodiment, the detector probe binds to a target sequence in the human genome within 1000, 750, 500, 250, 100, 90, 80, 75, 70, 60, 50, or 25 nucleotides of one of the fusion breakpoint identified in tables 4-6, 20, and 23. The reaction mixture, including or not including the detector probe, may further include a polymerase, reverse transcriptase, dntps, and/or uracil DNA deglycosylating enzyme (UDG). Polymerase, reverse transcriptase and UDG are not typically from human sources. The polymerase in the illustrative embodiment is a thermostable polymerase, such as Taq polymerase. In certain embodiments, the dntps in the reaction mixture comprise dUTP, and in certain examples, the reaction mixture may be free of dTTP. The reaction mixture may further comprise a target nucleic acid, e.g., a human target nucleic acid. The human target nucleic acid may be isolated, for example, from a biological sample (e.g., a tumor sample) of an individual suspected of having a cancer selected from the group consisting of: BLCA = bladder cancer, BRCA = breast cancer, CESC = cervical cell cancer, COAD = colon adenocarcinoma, GBM = glioblastoma multiforme, HNSC = head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, KIRK = clear cell renal cell carcinoma, KIRP = kidney papillary cell carcinoma, LAML = acute myelogenous leukemia, LGG = brain low-grade glioma, LIHC = liver hepatocellular carcinoma, LUAD = lung adenocarcinoma, lucc = squamous cell lung carcinoma, OV = ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, PRAD = prostate adenocarcinoma, READ = rectal adenocarcinoma, SKCM = skin melanoma, STAD = gastric adenocarcinoma, THCA = thyroid carcinoma, and UCEC = endometrial carcinoma. In certain embodiments, the target nucleic acid is from a tumor, such as a tumor of one of the cancer types listed in the previous sentence. In addition, the target nucleic acid may be extracted from a biological sample (e.g., FFPE sample) from a tumor. The reaction mixture of the present invention may comprise an amplicon. The amplicon can be, for example, an isolated nucleic acid. The amplicon may be, for example, between 25 and 2500 nucleotides, between 25 and 2000 nucleotides, between 25 and 1000 nucleotides, between 50 and 500 nucleotides, between 50 and 250 nucleotides, between 50 and 200 nucleotides, between 50 and 150 nucleotides, between 50 and 100 nucleotides, or between 50 and 75 nucleotides in length. The amplicon may have a nucleotide sequence within 1000, 750, 500, 250, 100, 90, 80, 75, 70, 65, 50, or 25 nucleotides on opposite sides of one of the fusion breakpoint identified in tables 4-6, 20, and 23 that is identical or complementary to a target sequence in the human genome. In certain embodiments, the amplicon comprises 25 to 250, 25 to 100, 25 to 75, 50 to 250, 50 to 200, 50 to 150, 50 to 100, or 50 to 75 of the nucleotide sequences provided in figures 4-6, or the complement thereof. In certain embodiments, the amplicon comprises a sequence variant that occurs in nature. For example, an amplicon may include a variable nucleotide sequence corresponding to a single nucleotide variant or a naturally occurring allele. In certain illustrative embodiments, the amplicons of the invention have chemical structures that are not found in nature and/or are not found in mammals (e.g., humans). For example, certain illustrative amplicons include bases of the type that are not found in nature or in mammals or that are found to be possibly not bound to the sugar-phosphate backbone of the amplicon. For example, the amplicon may be a DNA amplicon that includes a uracil base bound to a sugar phosphate backbone, thereby containing one thymidine residue in the template at least one and in the illustrative example one uridine residue at all positions. Thus, in an illustrative embodiment, the amplicon is a DNA amplicon that includes one or more deoxyuridine ('dU') residues. dU residues can be added by including the residues in the primers used to generate the amplicon. In certain embodiments, the reaction mixture includes a DNA amplicon that includes one or more dU residues for each deoxythymidine residue in the corresponding human genomic sequence. When amplicons are generated using amplification reactions (e.g., PCR), these amplicons may be generated, for example, by using a dNTP mixture that includes dUTP instead of dTTP. In certain embodiments, the amplicon comprises a segment of the corresponding sequence that is not found in the human genome, such as an oligonucleotide sequence, e.g., a DNA barcode sequence. The length of the non-human segment may be, for example, 5-10,000, 5-5000, 5-1000, 5-500, 5-100, 5-50, 5-25, 5-10, 10-10,000, 10-5000, 10-1000, 10-500, 10-100, 10-50, or 10-25 nucleotides. In certain embodiments, the amplicon includes a segment corresponding to a region of the human genome that spans the intron, but the amplicon does not include a segment corresponding to the intron. The present invention provides novel gene variants and gene variant-disease condition associations. The gene variant may have one or more mutations that produce the variant protein. The genetic variants provided herein are associated with certain cancers. Genetic variants produce protein variants. The invention further provides probes (e.g., amplification primer sets and detection probes) and methods of detection, diagnosis and treatment, as well as kits comprising or detecting the gene variants disclosed herein. Variants are shown in tables 7 and 11 as amino acid variants using the accession numbers or Entrez nucleotide and/or protein sequences of the parental or wild-type genes provided. The correlation with various cancers is shown in tables 7 and 11. Tables 7 and 11 provide a list of more than 99 genes identified using the method outlined in example 2. The variation or mutation was not found in the corresponding normal tissue. This is important because in a typical patient, a tumor sample can have a tumor specific variation of 10's to 100's. However, variations that occur at the same location (and not in normal tissue) are more pronounced in multiple patients. 4445 samples (from 4445 patients) were analyzed and a list of hotspots was prepared. Many of the reproduced mutations were found at the same location in 15-20 different cancer types. Diagnostic and kit Methods of diagnosing, treating, and detecting genetic variants and related diseases are contemplated herein. The method may comprise detecting a gene fusion and/or a gene variant in a sample of the subject. Any number and combination of gene fusions and/or gene variants can be detected in any of the reaction mixtures, compositions and kits disclosed herein. In one embodiment, the invention provides a composition and a kit comprising a set of probes that specifically recognize a nucleotide sequence encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. The probe set may be, for example, an amplification primer set. In another embodiment, provided herein is a composition comprising a primer set flanking a gene variant encoding one or more of the variants in table 7 and/or table 11. The reaction mixture of this embodiment may further comprise a detector probe that binds to a nucleotide sequence comprising a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. The reaction mixture, including or not including the detector probe, may further include a polymerase, dntps, and/or uracil DNA deglycosylating enzyme (UDG). Polymerase and UDG are not typically from human sources. The reaction mixture may further comprise a target nucleic acid, e.g., a human target nucleic acid. The human target nucleic acid may be isolated, for example, from a biological sample from an individual suspected of having cancer. The cancer may be selected from: BLCA = bladder cancer, BRCA = breast cancer, CESC = cervical cell cancer, COAD = colon adenocarcinoma, GBM = glioblastoma multiforme, HNSC = head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, KIRK = clear cell renal cell carcinoma, KIRP = kidney renal papillary cell carcinoma, LAML = acute myelogenous leukemia, LGG = brain low-grade glioma, LIHC = liver hepatocellular carcinoma, LUAD = lung adenocarcinoma, lucc = squamous cell lung cancer, OV = ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, PRAD = prostate adenocarcinoma, READ = rectal adenocarcinoma, SKCM = skin melanoma, STAD = gastric adenocarcinoma, THCA = thyroid carcinoma, and UCEC = endometrial carcinoma. In some embodiments, a kit is provided, wherein the kit encompasses one or more probes. In some embodiments, the kit encompasses probes for 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 500 or more fusion genes. In some embodiments, the probe is detectably labeled. In some embodiments, the probe hybridizes to a breakpoint present in the gene fusion. In some embodiments, the detection of any one of the gene variants disclosed in tables 7 and 11 can be combined with the detection of another one of the gene variants disclosed in those tables or any one of the gene fusions disclosed herein. That is, 2, 3,4, 5, 6,7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 500 or more gene variants can be detected in the same reaction. In some embodiments, the detected gene variants are those disclosed in tables 4-6, 7 and 11, 20 and 23, and may be combined with the detection of another one of the gene fusions disclosed in those tables. That is, 2, 3,4, 5, 6,7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 500 or more gene fusions can be detected in the same reaction. The nucleotide sequence encoding one or more of the genetic variants in table 7 and/or table 11 may be of any size that encompasses such variants. For example, the nucleotide sequence may be of any size that can be readily detected using a primer copy and/or using a probe. In another embodiment, a probe set is provided that specifically recognizes a nucleic acid encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11 (gene variants). In another embodiment, provided herein is a primer set that specifically amplifies a target nucleic acid encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. In another embodiment, provided herein are qPCR assays, such as TaqMan TM assays or MolecularBeacons TM assays, that specifically amplify and detect a target nucleic acid encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. The invention also provides an isolated nucleic acid comprising at least one sequence comprising a variation found in one or more gene variants selected from table 7 and/or table 11. The isolated nucleic acid may include a first primer on the 5' end. Furthermore, the nucleic acid may be single-stranded or double-stranded. In other embodiments, the invention provides a kit comprising a detector probe and/or a set of probes, e.g., an amplification primer set, that specifically recognizes nucleic acids encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. For example, in certain embodiments, the detector probes or amplification primer sets are designed to amplify and/or detect nucleic acids including at least one of the nucleic acids encoding the gene variants in table 7 and/or table 11. The kit may further comprise components from the amplification reaction mixture, such as a polymerase (typically not from human origin), dntps and/or UDG, in another container or in the same container. In addition, the kit may include a control nucleic acid. For example, the control nucleic acid may comprise a sequence comprising a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. A method of detecting cancer is provided comprising amplifying a nucleic acid encoding a gene variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11, e.g., the nucleic acid may comprise a sequence from one of the accession numbers in table 7 and/or table 11, except that the sequence contains a variant encoding a gene variant in table 7 and/or table 11; and detecting the presence of the nucleic acid, wherein the presence of the nucleic acid is indicative of the presence of cancer in the sample. In another method, provided herein is a method of detecting cancer comprising generating an amplicon comprising a sequence selected from the group consisting of sequences encoding the genetic variants in table 7 and/or table 11, and detecting the presence of the nucleic acid, wherein the presence of the nucleic acid is indicative of bladder cancer, head and neck cancer, or lung squamous cell carcinoma being present in a sample. The amplicon generally includes primers that are extended to form the amplicon. The cancer is selected from bladder cancer, breast cancer, cervical cell carcinoma, colon adenocarcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, kidney papillary cell carcinoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, brain low-grade glioma, liver hepatocellular carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung carcinoma, ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, prostate adenocarcinoma, rectal adenocarcinoma, skin melanoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, thyroid cancer, and endometrial cancer of the uterus body. A kit is provided comprising a probe set (e.g., an amplification primer set) that specifically recognizes nucleic acids comprising gene variants from table 7 and/or table 11. The kit may further comprise components from the amplification reaction mixture, such as a polymerase (typically not from human origin), dntps and/or UDG, in another container or in the same container. In addition, the kit may include a control nucleic acid. For example, the control nucleic acid can include sequences comprising gene variants from table 7 and/or table 11. In certain embodiments, a probe set is provided that specifically recognizes a nucleic acid comprising a gene variant from table 7 and/or table 11. In another embodiment, a genetic variant is provided comprising at least one of the genetic variants in table 7 and/or table 11. In another embodiment is a method of detecting a cancer selected from bladder cancer, breast cancer, cervical cell cancer, colon adenocarcinoma, glioblastoma multiforme, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, renal papillary cell carcinoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, brain low-grade glioma, liver hepatocellular carcinoma, lung adenocarcinoma, squamous cell lung carcinoma, ovarian serous adenocarcinoma, prostate adenocarcinoma, rectal adenocarcinoma, skin melanoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, thyroid cancer, and endometrial cancer in a sample by detecting the presence of a genetic variant selected from table 7 and/or table 11. Genetic variants may include, for example, but are not limited to, ZNF479 variants R11Q, R295K, R295T, R I, R345I, R345T, K T and T466K (see table 8). TABLE 18 Type of cancer Gene symbol Property of being pharmaceutically acceptable KM evidence Astrocytoma CXCR2 Y Endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma CXCR2 Y Squamous cell lung carcinoma CXCR2 Y Cutaneous melanoma CXCR2 Y Cutaneous melanoma CXCR2 Y Colorectal adenocarcinoma IL3 Y Stomach adenocarcinoma IL3 Y Cutaneous melanoma KCNK9 Y Advantageous results Endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma KCNK9 Y Lung adenocarcinoma KCNK9 Y Squamous cell lung carcinoma KCNK9 Y Poor results Non-small cell lung cancer, NOS S100A8 Y Glioblastoma cell carcinoma S100A8 Y Squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck S100A8 Y Papillary thyroid carcinoma S100A8 Y Cutaneous melanoma SHH Y Lung adenocarcinoma SHH Y Cutaneous melanoma CCDC61 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma CCDC61 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma CNTN5 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma CNTN5 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma CNTN5 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma CNTN5 Poor results Colorectal adenocarcinoma CNTN5 Poor results Colorectal adenocarcinoma CNTN5 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma CNTN5 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma CNTN5 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma CNTN5 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma EDDM3A Poor results Cutaneous melanoma FABP1 Poor results Lung adenocarcinoma OR2L13 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma OR4E2 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma OR4E2 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma OR4E2 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma PRSS37 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma PRSS37 Poor results Cutaneous melanoma SPINK13 Poor results Endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma ST6GAL2 Poor results Table 18 provides filtered pharmaceutizability or prognostic correlation from table 11. Table 18 provides evidence of cancer type, gene signature of genes identified as pharmaceutically acceptable in table 11, pharmaceutically acceptable (y=present), and KM. The KM evidence column provides Kaplan-Meier evidence (Kaplan-MEIER EVIDENCE). KM evidence indicates whether the event type supports a good or poor prognosis in a particular cancer type. Targeted therapy In at least one embodiment, the gene fusions and/or gene variants can be used to identify targeted therapies. Targeted therapies may include identifying agents that specifically interact with the gene fusion and/or gene variant. Targeted therapies may include, but are not limited to, antibody therapies, antisense therapies, and small molecule therapies. Antisense therapies are discussed in more detail under the heading 'antisense'. Compositions and methods for inactivating nucleic acid molecules involve, to some extent, the use of molecules having a nucleic acid region with a sequence complementary to a nucleic acid molecule that is the subject of the desired inactivation (i.e., a target nucleic acid molecule). The methods of the invention can be used to inactivate gene fusions and/or gene variants associated with a particular cancer. Thus, antisense molecules complementary to any of the gene fusions or gene variants identified herein can be identified. Small molecules are low molecular weight (< 800 daltons (Dalton)) organic compounds useful as enzyme substrates or modulators of biological processes and are about 10 -9 m in size. In pharmacology, the term is generally used for molecules that bind to a protein or nucleic acid and act as effectors (alter the activity or function of the protein or nucleic acid). The effector functions of small molecules can be tested by expressing the gene fusion or variant in a cellular assay and identifying small molecules that inhibit the expression or activity of the gene fusion or variant. The term 'pharmaceutically acceptable' is used in reference to drug discovery to describe biological targets, such as proteins, that are known to bind or predicted to bind to a drug with high affinity. In addition, binding of a drug to a pharmaceutically acceptable target will alter the function of the target in terms of therapeutic benefit to the patient. The term 'drug' herein includes small molecules (low molecular weight organic substances) and has been extended to include biomedical products such as therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. In at least one embodiment, the gene fusion or gene variant may be used to identify a pharmaceutically acceptable target. Table 8 provides a list of pharmaceutically acceptable targets that have been identified from tables 1-3 and 7. For example, the TPM1/ALK gene fusion is a pharmaceutically acceptable target, as ALK-related diseases can be treated with crizotinib (crizotinib) as shown in Table 8. Thus, if the gene fusion includes ALK, then the cancer may be treated with crizotinib. In addition, if the genetic variant includes a mutation in ALK, then the cancer may be treated with crizotinib. Similarly, table 21 provides a list of pharmaceutically acceptable targets that have been identified from table 19, and table 24 provides a list of pharmaceutically acceptable targets that have been identified from table 22. Table 8: pharmaceutically acceptable genes from Table 1 Table 8 provides a list of 11 pharmacologically acceptable targets identified in the gene fusions in tables 1-3 or the gene variants in tables 7 and 11. Tables 16 and 17 provide analyses of other pharmaceutically acceptable targets within the genetic variants in tables 1-3 or tables 7 and 11. Tables 8, 16 and 17 provide information about the pharmaceutically acceptable targets, including the gene name, whether the drug has been approved by the U.S. food and drug administration (U.S. food and Drug Administration, FDA) (n=no), and if the drug has not been approved, which stage (pre-registration, stage III, stage II, stage I and pre-clinical) the clinical trial is in. For example, drugs associated with the NOTCH1 gene have not been approved, but have been in phase 1 clinical trials by this time of writing (see OMP-52M 51). Approved drugs include, but are not limited to, cinacalcet hydrochloride for use in diseases with ALK gene fusions and for use in diseases with CASR gene fusions. Many approved drugs have been identified for gene fusions with EGFR, including (but not limited to) erlotinib; panitumumab; cetuximab; naphthalene Pi Deming; gefitinib; nituzumab; vandetanib; lapatinib xylene sulfonate; icotinib hydrochloride. The approved drug panatinib has been identified for diseases with FGFR3, and ponatinib has been identified for diseases with JAK2 gene fusions. Many approved drugs have been identified for use in gene fusions with RET, including (but not limited to) sorafenib; vandetanib; sunitinib malate; cabozitinib; regorafenib. Approved drug gram Zhuo Tini has been identified for diseases with ROS 1. Other drugs that may prove suitable include, but are not limited to, crizotinib, afatinib, masitinib, za Lu Tumu mab, lenatinib, doratinib lactate, XL647, lin Duopa picom, lesitemimab, dacatinib, SAR-302503, paritinib, pirifustine, bupacib, motification diphosphate Sha Ni, and apatinib. The methods provided herein may include delivering a drug to a subject or patient. The medication may be one that has been approved by a government drug regulatory agency (e.g., the FDA), or the medication may be at any stage prior to the approval stage. In an illustrative aspect, the drug is an FDA approved drug. In other aspects, the drug may be in preclinical, stage I, stage II, stage III, or pre-approval stage. In certain aspects, the methods provided herein comprise delivering to a subject one or more of the drugs listed in tables 8, 16, and 17. When a genetic event involving more than one of the genes listed in tables 8, 16 and 17 is identified in a subject, the methods provided herein may include delivering more than one drug, particularly a drug associated with a different gene affected by the identified genetic event. Antisense sense Antisense technology has been applied to inhibit the expression of various oncogenes. For example, the Craf-1 cDNA fragment in antisense orientation introduced into human squamous carcinoma under the control of adenovirus 2 late promoter results in a greatly reduced tumorigenic potential relative to cells transfected with a control sense transfectant. Similarly, cmyc antisense constructs accelerated differentiation and inhibited G 1 progression in frank murine erythroleukemia cells (Friend Murine Erythroleukemia cell). Antisense approaches take advantage of the tendency of nucleic acids to pair with 'complementary' sequences. Complementary sequences are those polynucleotides that are capable of base pairing according to standard Watson-Crick complementarity rules (Watson-Crick complementarity rules). Targeting double stranded (ds) DNA with polynucleotides causes triple helix formation; targeting the RNA will cause double helix formation. Antisense polynucleotides bind specifically to their target polynucleotides and interfere with transcription, RNA processing, transport, translation, and/or stability when introduced into a target cell. Antisense RNA constructs or DNA encoding the antisense RNA can be used to inhibit gene transcription or translation or both in a host cell in vitro or in vivo (e.g., in a host animal, including a human subject). Antisense can be under the transcriptional control of a promoter. 'promoter' refers to a DNA sequence recognized by the synthetic machinery of a cell or by an introduced synthetic machinery that is required to initiate a particular transcription of a gene. The phrase 'under transcriptional control' means that the promoter is in the correct position and orientation relative to the nucleic acid to control RNA polymerase initiation and expression of the gene. In some cases, the antisense expression construct will comprise a virus or an engineered construct derived from the genome of a virus. When cDNA insertion is employed, polyadenylation signals may be included that effect proper polyadenylation of the gene transcript. The nature of the polyadenylation signal is not believed to be critical and any of the sequences may be employed. Terminators can be used to enhance messenger levels and minimize simultaneous reads from the cassette into other sequences. Antisense constructs can be designed to bind to promoters and other control regions, exons, introns, or even exon-intron boundaries of the gene fusions or gene variants disclosed herein. The most potent antisense constructs include regions complementary to intron/exon splice junctions. One embodiment includes an antisense construct complementary to a region within 50-200 bases of an intron-exon splice junction. It has been observed that some exon sequences can be included in constructs without severely affecting their target selectivity. The amount of exon material included will vary depending on the particular exon and intron sequences used. Whether excess exon DNA is simply included can be readily tested by testing constructs in vitro to determine whether normal cell function is affected or whether expression of the relevant gene with the complementary sequence is affected. The term 'complementary' in the sense of antisense means a polynucleotide sequence that is substantially complementary over its entire length and has few base mismatches. For example, a sequence of fifteen bases in length may be referred to as complementary when it has complementary nucleotides at thirteen or fourteen positions. Naturally, a perfectly complementary sequence will be one that is perfectly complementary over its entire length and has no base mismatches. Other sequences with lower degrees of homology are also contemplated. For example, antisense constructs can be designed that have limited regions of high homology and contain regions of non-homology (e.g., ribonucleases). These molecules, although having less than 50% homology, will bind to the target sequence under appropriate conditions. Antisense delivery in vivo, ex vivo or in vitro may involve the use of a vector. An effective vector for antisense delivery is an adenovirus expression vector. 'adenoviral expression vector' is meant to include those constructs that contain sufficient adenoviral sequences to support packaging of the construct and expression of antisense polynucleotides that have been cloned therein. Expression vectors may include genetically engineered forms of adenovirus. Adenoviruses are particularly useful as gene transfer vectors because of their medium size genome, ease of manipulation, high potency, broad target cell range, and high infectivity. The viral genome contains 100-200 base pair inverted repeats (ITRs) at both ends, which are cis-elements necessary for viral DNA replication and packaging. Adenoviruses are easy to grow and manipulate and exhibit a broad host range in vitro and in vivo. This virus group is available at high titers (e.g., 10 9-1011 plaque forming units/ml) and is highly infectious. The life cycle of adenovirus does not need to be integrated into the host cell genome. The foreign genes delivered by adenovirus vectors are episomal and thus have low genotoxicity to the host cell. No adverse effects have been reported in vaccination studies in the case of wild-type adenoviruses, demonstrating their safety and therapeutic potential as gene transfer vectors in vivo. Retroviruses are a group of single-stranded RNA viruses that have the property of being able to convert their RNA into double-stranded DNA in infected cells by reverse transcription. The resulting DNA is then stably integrated into the cell chromosome in proviral form and directs the synthesis of viral proteins. The integration causes the viral gene sequences to remain in the recipient cell and its progeny. The retroviral genome contains three genes gag, pol and env, which encode capsid proteins, polymerase and envelope components, respectively. The sequence found upstream of the gag gene contains a signal for packaging the genome into a viral particle. Two Long Terminal Repeat (LTR) sequences are present at the 5 'and 3' ends of the viral genome. These contain strong promoter and enhancer sequences and are also required for integration in the host cell genome. To construct a retroviral vector, nucleic acids encoding the relevant genes are inserted into the viral genome at the location of certain viral sequences to produce replication defective viruses. To produce virions, packaging cell lines containing gag, pol and env genes but no LTR and packaging components were constructed. When a recombinant plasmid containing human cDNA as well as retroviral LTRs and packaging sequences is introduced into a cell line (e.g., by calcium phosphate precipitation), the packaging sequences allow the RNA transcripts of the recombinant plasmid to be packaged into viral particles, which are then secreted into the culture medium. The recombinant retrovirus is then collected, optionally concentrated, and used for gene transfer. Retroviral vectors are capable of infecting a wide variety of cell types. However, integration and stable expression require division of the host cell. Based on chemical modification of retroviruses by chemical addition of lactose residues into the viral envelope, novel methods have recently been developed which are designed to allow specific targeting of retroviral vectors. This modification may allow for specific infection of hepatocytes via the sialoglycoprotein receptor. Other viral vectors may be used as expression vectors. Vectors derived from viruses such as vaccinia virus, adeno-associated virus (AAV) and herpes virus may be used. To achieve expression of the sense or antisense gene construct, the expression vector can be delivered into the cell. This delivery may be achieved in vitro (e.g., in laboratory procedures for transforming cell lines) or in vivo or ex vivo (e.g., in the treatment of certain disease conditions). As described above, one delivery mechanism is via viral infection, wherein the expression construct is encapsidated in the infectious virion. Several non-viral methods for transferring expression constructs into cultured mammalian cells are also contemplated. These methods include calcium phosphate precipitation of DEAE-dextran, electroporation, direct microinjection, DNA-loaded liposomes and lipofectamine-DNA complexes, cell sonication, gene bombardment with high-speed microparticles, and receptor-mediated transfection. Some of these techniques may be successfully adapted for in vivo or ex vivo use. Pharmaceutical composition-when contemplated for clinical use, the pharmaceutical composition, gene delivery vehicle or engineered cell may be manufactured in a form suitable for the intended use. In general, this requires the preparation of compositions that are substantially free of pyrogens and other impurities that may be harmful to humans or animals. Suitable salts and buffers are used to stabilize the delivery vehicle and allow uptake by the target cells. When introducing recombinant cells into a patient, a buffer will also be used. The aqueous compositions of the present invention comprise an effective amount of a cell-to-cell carrier dissolved or dispersed in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or aqueous medium. The phrase 'pharmaceutically or pharmacologically acceptable' refers to molecular entities and compositions that do not produce adverse, allergic, or other untoward reactions when administered to an animal or human. As used herein, 'pharmaceutically acceptable carrier' includes any and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Unless any conventional medium or agent is incompatible with the vectors or cells of the present invention, its use in therapeutic compositions is contemplated. The expression vector and delivery vehicle may be administered via any common route, provided that the target tissue is available via the route. This includes oral, nasal, buccal, rectal, vaginal or topical. Alternatively, administration may be by in situ, intradermal, subcutaneous, intramuscular, intraperitoneal or intravenous injection. The composition will typically be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable composition. An effective amount of the therapeutic agent is determined for the intended purpose. The term 'unit dose' refers to physically discrete units suitable for a subject, each unit containing a predetermined amount of therapeutic composition calculated to produce a desired response in connection with its administration, i.e., an appropriate route and treatment regimen. The amount to be administered (both in terms of the amount of therapy and the unit dose) depends on the subject to be treated, the state of the subject, and the desired protection. The exact amount of therapeutic composition is also dependent on the judgment of the physician and is specific to each individual. Therapeutic kit-all necessary materials and reagents required to inhibit tumor cell proliferation can be co-assembled in a kit. This will typically comprise the expression vector, virus or cell of choice. Also included are various media for replication of the expression vector and host cells for such replication. The kit will include a different container for each individual reagent. The kit may further comprise instructions defining (i) administration of an antisense expression vector construct; (ii) an antisense-expressing virus; and (iii) an antisense expressing cell. In some embodiments, an interference (iRNA or siRNA) is provided. In some embodiments, the iRNA is complementary to the breakpoint of the fusion gene. Methods related to clinical outcome findings Tables 15 and 39 provided herein contain over 100 gene events for various cancer types, including gain-of-function mutations, loss-of-function mutations, in-peak gene amplifications/deletions, and fusion events, which correlate with clinical outcome with high statistical significance (q < 0.1). Accordingly, provided herein are methods for delivering a treatment to a subject, methods for determining whether a subject receives a treatment, methods for determining whether to deliver a treatment, and methods for delivering a report. In certain illustrative embodiments, the treatment is a drug. As a non-limiting example, the drugs may be the drugs listed in tables 8, 16 and 17, particularly when the method involves genetic events that affect the genes listed for the drugs in tables 8, 16 and 17. In other examples, as discussed herein, the drug may be any drug approved by a regulatory agency, or any drug in a development stage prior to approval. Thus, in another embodiment, a method of delivering a treatment to a subject is provided, wherein the method comprises detecting a genetic event identified in table 15, and treating the subject, wherein the treatment is believed to positively affect the clinical outcome of a cancer patient having the genetic event and/or is believed to affect a biological pathway associated with the genetic event. This embodiment may be viewed as a method for determining whether a subject is receiving a treatment or a method for determining whether to deliver a treatment or perform a treatment to a subject. Accordingly, provided herein is a method of determining whether a subject receives a drug, the method comprising detecting a genetic event identified in tables 15 and/or 39, and then delivering a drug to the subject if the detected genetic event is listed in tables 15 and/or 39, wherein the drug is believed to positively affect the clinical outcome of a patient having the genetic event. In illustrative aspects of these embodiments, the genetic events are associated with genes found in tables 8, 16 and 17, and the drugs are listed in tables 8, 16 and 17 as partners for the genes. The subject is typically a subject having a cancer of the type listed in tables 15 and/or 39. In an illustrative aspect of this embodiment, a genetic event is associated with a poor prognosis for a subject suffering from a cancer, typically the cancers listed in tables 15 and/or 39, associated with the genetic event. In another embodiment, provided herein is a method of delivering a report, wherein the method comprises detecting a genetic event identified in tables 15 and/or 39, and delivering to a medical professional a report that would provide a predicted clinical outcome related to the genetic event of a cancer in a subject. As a non-limiting example, the medical professional may be a physician, gene consultant or other medical professional. Typically, a physician, gene consultant or other medical professional has a professional relationship with the subject, such as a patient/doctor relationship. The report may be a paper report or may be an electronic report delivered to a medical professional via a computer network. The methods and reports may include one or more of the genetic events identified in tables 15 and/or 39 and associated prognosis. In another embodiment, provided herein is a method of determining which therapy to administer to a subject, the method comprising detecting a genetic event listed in table 15, and administering a therapy in dependence upon the detected genetic event. In an illustrative embodiment, if the detected genetic event is associated with a poor prognosis, the treatment is an invasive treatment, such as a treatment in which the patient would be more painful and painful due to the treatment. In related embodiments, the treatment is a more aggressive treatment if the detected genetic event correlates with a poor prognosis, and is a less aggressive treatment if the detected genetic event is another genetic event, particularly if the detected genetic event is identified in tables 15 and/or 39 as indicating a good prognosis. For example, if an AADAC gene deletion, amplification of CHD1L gene, FMO5 gene, or PRKAB gene, or a combination thereof is detected in a lung cancer adenocarcinoma patient, the patient may be treated with an invasive chemotherapeutic drug regimen. If these genetic events are not detected in the patient, the patient may be monitored, but may not be administered a chemotherapeutic drug. In another embodiment, provided herein is a method for determining whether to treat a cancer patient, the method comprising detecting a genetic event listed in tables 15 and/or 39, and treating the subject if a genetic event is detected that correlates with a poor prognosis in table 15. In another embodiment, provided herein is a method for determining whether to treat a cancer patient, the method comprising detecting a genetic event listed in tables 15 and/or 39, and if a genetic event associated with a good prognosis in tables 15 and/or 23 is detected, not treating the subject. In another embodiment, provided herein is a method for determining whether to treat or monitor a cancer patient, the method comprising detecting a genetic event listed in tables 15 and/or 39, and if a genetic event associated with a good prognosis in tables 15 and/or 39 is detected, monitoring but not treating the subject. If recurrence or progression of the cancer is detected, the treatment may be administered later. In certain aspects of these embodiments of the invention that relate to methods provided herein based on clinical results related to the genetic events in tables 15 and/or 39 (e.g., methods of delivering a treatment to a subject, or methods of determining whether to deliver a treatment to a subject, or methods of determining which treatment to administer or deliver or methods for delivering a report), a subject may be identified as having any one of the types of genetic events listed in tables 15 and/or 39 and any one of the specific genetic events. For example, a gene event may be a mutation that obtains function, a mutation that loses function, a gene amplification or deletion (typically an in-peak gene amplification/deletion), or a fusion event. In certain illustrative embodiments, genetic events having q values of 1×10 -3 or less, 1×10 -4 or less, or 1×10 -5 or less are identified in tables 15 and/or 39. In certain aspects, the genetic events are listed in tables 15 and/or 39 as involving a pharmaceutically acceptable gene. For example, the genetic events may be those listed in tables 15 and/or 39 that relate to genes that are targets of preclinical drugs. As one non-limiting example, provided herein is a method of determining which treatment or course of treatment to administer to a patient having ovarian cancer (e.g., ovarian serous cystic adenocarcinoma), wherein the method comprises detecting or otherwise determining the amplification of the ID1 or BCL2L1 gene, and administering the treatment. In an illustrative embodiment, the treatment is an approved treatment for BCL2L1, such as a current FDA approved BCL2L1 treatment, wherein BCL2L1 amplification is detected. Methods for detecting the types of genetic events listed in tables 15 and/or 39 are known to the skilled artisan. Those methods may include nucleic acid sequencing methods or amplification methods, such as PCR or isothermal amplification methods, or combinations thereof. Those methods may include providing primers designed to bind to genes identified in tables 15 and/or 39 or to bind upstream of genes identified in tables 15 and/or 39. Thus, provided herein are reaction mixtures and kits comprising a nucleic acid sample of a subject and one or more primers that bind to or upstream of the genes identified in tables 15 and/or 39. Typically, the gene is associated with a gene event in table 15 and/or 39, and the subject has a cancer identified in table 15 and/or 39 as having a prognosis associated with the gene event. The kit may also include control nucleic acids bound by primers as disclosed herein for the various embodiments of the invention. The reaction mixture may also include a polymerase as disclosed herein for the various embodiments of the invention. In certain aspects of these embodiments of the invention that relate to methods provided herein (e.g., methods of delivering a treatment to a subject, or methods of determining whether to deliver a treatment to a subject, methods of determining which treatment to deliver, or methods for delivering a report to a medical professional) based on clinical results related to genetic events in tables 15 and/or 39, genetic events may include more than one genetic event identified in tables 15 and/or 39. In certain aspects, the method according to this embodiment detects 2,3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more genetic events identified in table 15, particularly those identified as having the same prognosis for a given cancer type. For example, the method can include detecting a genetic event in a breast cancer patient, and administering therapy to the patient when the detected genetic event includes gene amplification of two or more of BRF2, ERLIN2, GPR124, PROSC, and TAB11FI genes. In another example, the method comprises detecting two or more genetic events in a subject suffering from a low-grade glioma, and administering a treatment to the subject, wherein the genetic events are at least two of: amplification of EGFR or SEC61G gene; amplification of CDK4, CYP27B1, MARCH9, TSPAN31 or AGAP2 genes; mutations in the EGFR gene that gain of function; or a deletion of the CDKN2A, CDKN B or MTAP gene. In another aspect, the method comprises detecting a genetic event associated with a poor prognosis, and the genetic event is identified in tables 8, 16, 17, 15 and/or 39 as a target for a drug or approved drug (e.g., an FDA approved drug) in a current preclinical trial. In certain aspects of these embodiments of the invention that relate to methods provided herein (e.g., methods of delivering a treatment to a subject, or methods of determining whether to deliver a treatment to a subject, or methods of determining which treatment to administer or deliver or methods for delivering a report) based on clinical results related to genetic events in tables 15 and/or 39, a genetic event may be a specific genetic event identified in one of the other tables herein. The skilled artisan can identify which general types of genetic events in tables 15 and/or 39 will fall within a particular genetic event in one of the other tables. Computer-implemented system Computer systems may be used in some embodiments of the invention. In various embodiments, a computer system may include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information, and a processor coupled with the bus for processing information. In various embodiments, computer system 100 may also include memory, which may be Random Access Memory (RAM) or other dynamic storage device, coupled to the bus for determining base calls, and instructions to be executed by the processor. The memory may also be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by the processor. In various embodiments, the computer system may further include a Read Only Memory (ROM) or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor. Storage devices, such as magnetic disks or optical disks, may be provided and coupled to a bus for storing information and instructions. In various embodiments, the computer system may be coupled via a bus to a display, such as a Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) or Liquid Crystal Display (LCD), for displaying information to a computer user. An input device (including alphanumeric and other keys) may be coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor. Another type of user input device is a cursor control, such as a mouse, a trackball, or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display. Such an input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes, a first axis (e.g., x) and a second axis (e.g., y), that allow the device to specify positions in one plane. A computer system may perform the teachings of the present invention. Consistent with certain implementations of the teachings of this disclosure, the results may be provided by computer system 100 in response to a processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory. Such instructions may be read into memory from another computer-readable medium, such as a storage device. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the memory can cause the processor to perform the methods described herein. Or hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present teachings. Thus, implementations of the teachings of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software. In various embodiments, the term 'computer-readable medium' as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, and transmission media. Examples of non-volatile media may include, but are not limited to, optical or magnetic disks, such as a storage device. Examples of volatile media may include, but are not limited to, dynamic memory, such as memory. Examples of transmission media may include, but are not limited to, coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a bus. Common forms of non-transitory computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, or any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, and EPROM, a flash EEPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, or any other tangible medium from which a computer can read. According to various embodiments, instructions configured to be executed by a processor to perform a method are stored on a computer-readable medium. The computer readable medium can be a device that stores digital information. For example, computer readable media includes compact disk read-only (CD-ROM) as known in the art for storing software. The computer readable medium is accessed by a processor adapted to execute instructions configured to be executed. Methods, systems, and computer readable media are provided that can efficiently collect, analyze, store, transfer, retrieve, and/or distribute information (including genomics and/or patient information) among multiple sites and entities in accordance with the teachings and principles embodied in the present disclosure. In one embodiment, a system for determining whether one or more gene fusions and/or variants are present in a sample is provided. The system may further determine to identify a disease condition (e.g., cancer) associated with one or more gene fusions and/or gene variants and determine an appropriate treatment based on the mutation status. In certain embodiments, the system includes a processor in communication with a sequencing instrument that receives sequencing data. In some embodiments, the processor may perform one or more variant calls. In some embodiments, the processor may provide filtering and/or annotation predictions. Examples In the examples below, the methods are used to identify gene fusions and gene variants associated with a panel of 19 cancers in 4,225 cancer patient samples. The gene fusions and gene variants are then used to generate diagnostic methods for confirming cancer predisposition, diagnosing cancer, staging cancer, providing prognosis, and identifying pharmaceutically acceptable cancers. Methods are provided to provide targeted therapies for cancer based on the identification of gene fusions. Example 1: high throughput system analysis of double-ended next-generation sequencing data characterizing gene fusion landscape in cancer Samples of 4,225 cancer patients across 19 diseases were treated with deFuse (McPherson et al, 'deFuse: algorithm for gene Fusion discovery in tumor RNAseq data (deFuse: an algorithm for gene Fusion discovery in tumor RNASEQ DATA)', public science library, comparative Biology (PLoS Comp. Bio.) 2011) and TopHat (gold (Kim) et al, 'TopHat-Fusion: algorithm for discovery of novel Fusion transcripts (TopHat-Fusion: an algorithm for discovery of novel Fusion transcripts)', 'Genome Biology (Genome Biology) 2011) gene Fusion invoking software using cloud-based computing infrastructure. Confirming the filtering criteria for the gene fusion events, which enriches for high confidence chemically verified gene fusion events. Gene fusions encode oncogenes in hematology and solid tumors, and are often associated with significant clinical responses and appropriate targeting agents. Large-scale parallel double-ended sequencing can identify structural rearrangements in tumor genomes and transcriptomes. However, the computational methods for identifying gene fusions vary (still evolving) and essentially train cell line data. Systematic approaches to characterize known oncogene fusions and to find novel gene fusions in cancer have been developed. RNASeq data from about 3,400 clinical cases of 16 cancer types were obtained from the cancer genomic center (Cancer Genomics Hub, CGHub) of the cancer genomic profile (THE CANCER Genome Atlas, TCGA). The performance of several gene fusion invocations programs was investigated and two were selected (deFuse and TopHat) for further method development aimed at supporting both single-ended and double-ended data. An analysis pipeline is developed and executed in parallel on a high performance computing cluster. The aggregated data is filtered and annotated as a post-processing step that allows exploratory analysis of various filters. The filtration method is optimized for datasets comprising known standards (e.g., tmprss2.Erg in prostate cancer, pml. Rara in acute myelogenous leukemia, etc.), thereby enriching these and other gene fusions with correct 5'-3' orientation, while excluding cases with ambiguous breakpoint and cross reads, alignment errors, and read-through transcripts from neighboring genes. The predicted fusion is summarized based on the presence of unique genes and unique gene pairs, each within a particular disease, that are involved in the fusion with multiple matches. In case the predicted fusion and the added important proof of verification are positive, an elevated expression is observed after the predicted breakpoint of the 3' gene. Universal disease fusion and multiple collocation fusion events widen the clinical population range of gene fusion events. All single ended data were processed using TopHat and all double ended data were processed using deFuse. TopHat has been shown to be effective with longer 75bp single ended data. The deFuse algorithm is not compatible with single-ended data and has been designed to make full use of read pairs. Pretreatment of data and detection of fusion: the deFuse TopHat steps for all samples were performed in parallel on the high-performance compute clusters. The aggregated data is filtered and annotated as a post-processing step that enables filter criteria to minimize false positive fusions. The list of preferential fusions was validated with RNASeq exon expression data. TCGA data source: all RNASeq data for gene fusion analysis were obtained from the cancer genomics center (CGHub, current repository of TCGA genome data-safe hypertext transfer protocol:// cghub. Ucsc. Edu /). Table 9 lists TCGA sample counts for M2 and M3 downloads and processing: Table 9: treated TCGA samples Type of cancer Abbreviation for cancer type Sample of Center of the machine Instrument for measuring and controlling the intensity of light Bladder urothelial cancer BLCA 122 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Invasive breast cancer BRCA 841 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma CESC 88 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Colon adenocarcinoma COAD* 196 UNC-LCCC Illumina GA IIx Glioblastoma multiforme GBM 167 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck HNSC 302 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Chromophobe renal cancer KICH 66 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Clear cell carcinoma of kidney KIRC 480 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Renal papillary cell carcinoma of kidney KIRP 76 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Acute myelogenous leukemia LAML 179 BCCAGSC Illumina GA IIx Brain low grade glioma LGG 184 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Liver hepatocellular carcinoma LIHC 34 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Lung adenocarcinoma LUAD 345 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Squamous cell carcinoma of lung LUSC 221 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Ovarian serous cyst adenocarcinoma OV 417 BCCAGSC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Pancreatic cancer PAAD 31 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Prostate adenocarcinoma PRAD 140 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Rectal adenocarcinoma READ* 71 UNC-LCCC Illumina GA IIx Cutaneous melanoma SKCM 267 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Stomach adenocarcinoma STAD 41 BCCAGSC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Thyroid cancer THCA 373 UNC-LCCC Illumina HiSeq 2000 Endometrial cancer of uterus UCEC* 317 UNC-LCCC Illumina GA IIx * Single ended TCGA disease BAM file download from CGHub using its Gene torrent software (Gene Torrent Software) With the goal of supporting both single-ended and double-ended data, 4,374 double-ended samples were treated with deFuse and 584 single-ended samples were treated with TopHat. Broadly, the analysis pipeline consists of 5 main steps: 1. preprocessing the raw data to obtain FASTQ files; 2. running a fusion calling program; 3. filtering the breakpoint to the relevant gene region; 4. annotating the breakpoint with Oncomine transcriptomes; summarizing and prioritizing novel fusions that may be of interest. The input into the fusion calling program consists of RNASeq reads in FASTQ format, which require conversion of the BAM file provided by TCGA into one or two FASTQ files of single-ended or double-ended data (respectively). Custom SamToFastq converters were developed to generate FASTQ files from TCGA BAM files. In addition to allowing for systematic conversion of all double ended RNASEQ TCGA BAMs, samToFASTQ converters have other advantages over other conversion tools. First, it is written in C and compiled to run faster and reduce processing time. Second, it incorporates several verification steps to ensure proper partner pairing and consistent partner pair ordering in the output FASTQ file, both of which are input requirements for the fusion caller. There are 3 cancer types (COAD, READ, UCEC) available only in the form of single-ended RNASeq data. For single-ended BAM file conversion, the FASTQ file is generated using program BamTools (secure HyperText transfer protocol:// gitsub.com/pezmaster/bamtools). Integration-figure 1 is a diagram of the opposite level of result filtering by two invocations. As part of the analysis, the 'level I' data was integrated, the output potential_fusion. Txt file from TopHat-Fusion Post and the output results. Classification. Tsv file from deFuse. The integration step involves converting the reported breakpoint into a genomic coordinate system-based breakpoint and merging into a common file format. Breakpoint filtering-filtering about 550 ten thousand predictions from the 'plane I' output of the calling program, only those calls (refGene about 7 months 18 days in 2012, obtained from UCSC) were retained in which each breakpoint was in the 5' utr or CDS region of the RefSeq transcript. This was done to enrich for predicted fusions for fusions containing functional gene regions. The predicted breakpoint that would occur in the intron sequence was also excluded, yielding a pool of 423,587 predicted chimeras. Breakpoint annotation—for each pair of breakpoints, only one transcript is retained per Entrez ID. This ensures consistency in annotating the break point at the same location. However, predicted breakpoint at different locations of the same gene match can still produce multiple transcripts representing a pair of genes, which is a possible evidence for alternative transcripts. The basic annotations from the caller are discarded because they are the default annotation source based on each corresponding caller. However, some of the output fields of both TopHat and deFuse are reserved to help prioritize the predicted fusion. In addition, certain annotation properties that are not explicitly reported by the caller are inferred from other caller properties. Inferred properties-Support and span read counts are obtained from each caller and summarized in read span (READS SPAN) and read span Support (READS SPAN Support). The latter is the sum of reads across the fusion and reads supporting the fusion. The breakpoint sequences reported by the calling procedure were trimmed to include 50 bases on each side of the fusion and combined into breakpoint sequences. Fusion breakpoint is depicted by '|'. Since neither of the invokers provides a definitive '5' or '3' tag, the relative 5'-3' orientation of the fusion partner is inferred by combining the invoker parameters with the gene chain annotation. If inferred 5 'and 3' matches exist for a given gene fusion call, the valid targeting field is labeled 'Y'. REPEATMASKER notes-each predicted breakpoint position is also annotated with REPEATMASKER features near the breakpoint. This was done to identify breakpoint in highly repetitive genomic regions, where alignment errors are likely to affect the prediction of chimeric transcripts. In each fusion prediction, if any of the breakpoint flanking the sequence overlaps the REPEATMASKER element by 12 or more bases, the REPEATMASKER overlap field is set to 1. The frequency of overlapping fusion calls is used for Oncomine prioritization as described below, so that gene fusion predictions with lower overlapping frequencies are treated as higher quality. Fusion exon expression imbalance-reproducible Oncomine priority fusion was observed using RNASeq exon expression data downloaded using GDAC Firehose tool to provide secondary evidence of true positive fusion events by looking for exon expression imbalance before and after breakpoint call. In particular, if expression of the 3 'partner is affected by the promoter region of the 5' partner, exon expression should be enhanced after the predicted breakpoint. This effect is especially visible when looking at fused versus unfused patient samples. The RPKM RNASEQ values for each patient are listed in the form of Gene Annotation Format (GAF) signatures corresponding to complexes of UCSC exons from several different gene definitions, including Refseq. Fusion breakpoint treated by kenpandisa (Compendia) was mapped to GAF features. 80.8% of 396,298 Refseq exons map perfectly to GAF features in the curve shown below. The Refseq exon and GAF feature pairs that produce the greatest overlap were selected and reported. The value called rg_pct provides a measure of the quality of the mapping of a given Refseq exon to the GAF feature based on the following formula: rg-pct=overlap/length refseq overlap/length GAF Features (e.g. a character) The mapping with an rg_pct value of 1 is perfectly overlapping, whereas a value of less than 1 indicates that refseq exons or GAF features are not mapped to exactly the same genomic region, and RPKM values may be suspect. Due to the disease coverage shown in the bar graph, RNASeq V2 data was selected for all diseases except OV, STAD, and LAML. The fusion in vitro exon expression was manually reviewed for expression imbalance for the Oncomine priority fusion subset meeting the following criteria: 1. a Oncomine priority fusion for rendering; 2. oncomine priority fusion listed in Mitelman database; 3. one fusion partner is Oncomine functionally oncogene and involves at least 3 Oncomine-priority fusions; one fusion partner is listed in Mulberry cancer Gene Census (SANGER CANCER GENE Census, hypertext transfer protocol:// www.sanger.ac.uk/genetics/CGP/Census /) and involves at least 3 Oncomine priority fusions. A total of 994 gene fusions met these criteria, and exon expression imbalances were manually examined by assigning 'supported', 'refuted', 'neutral' or 'untested' ratings to gene fusion calls. The expert assigns ratings using the following criteria: the support is as follows: the fused sample has a highly expressed 3' fusion partner after the breakpoint such that the fused sample is an outlier to the patient population. Before the breakpoint, the expression of the 3' partner should be lower than after the breakpoint. Refuting: the very low average expression of the 5' match (< 5 RPKM) or the average expression of one match was much lower (about 1/10) compared to the other. Neutral: neither support nor refuting criteria are met. The non-manually reviewed fusions were assigned a rating that was not tested. Fusion overview-fusion within a disease is outlined based on the appearance of unique gene pairs and on the appearance of individual genes (possibly together with multiple matches). Fusion profile-for unique fusion pairs (unique from the Entrez ID pair), the number of samples within the disease with at least one fusion prediction according to any calling procedure is the fused sample count. Since multiple breakpoint points of the same gene pair can be reported in one sample and across multiple samples, the number of unique fusion pairs within each disease represented by 424k+ fusion calls is 49,588. Table 10 shows the properties summarized for a given fusion partner pair spanning an individual prediction: table 10: If genes on the genome are separated by < 1Mb, then adjacent markers are set for the fusions, and defuse inverted markers are set in the predictions of less than or equal to 75% of the individual fusions of these fusion partners. Mitelman Cross-reference-individual unique fusion cross-reference genomics distortion Mitelman database (Hypertext transfer protocol:// cgap. Nci. Nih. Gov/Chromosomcs/Mitclman, download 2.25.2013). Matching is based on the name of the gene rather than the type of disease. Thus, gene fusions in a disease reported in Mitelman may have been present in different disease types in the TCGA dataset. The gene fusions outlined at the gene level are based on the gene name cross-reference Mitelman database. Thus, genes with different histology or completely different aberration types (e.g., larger chromosome-level deletions than fusions) as reported in Mitelman have more potential than the predicted unique fusion pair. Blacklist of normal sample fusions-to reduce the number of false positive fusions, 344 double-ended normal samples spanning 10 diseases were processed using the same deFuse pipeline as described above. A total of 56,579 total fusion calls consisting of 6,024 unique fusions were observed. Of the 49,588 unique gene fusion events, 11, 801 of these calls were observed in normal samples. These normal sample fusions were invoked for generating a blacklist and thus removing these false positives from Oncomine-priority gene fusions. Parallel homologous fusion partner blacklist-blacklist of fusions between parallel homologous gene family members assembled using two strategies: 1) Manually detecting high frequency fusion partner gene names, and 2) comparing the first 3 characters of all priority fusion partner gene names. In the latter strategy, the fusion partner was verified as 'paralogous' using HomoloGene, ensembl and SIMAP, and then included in the final blacklist. The black list consisted of 375 unique paralogous gene fusions and was used to remove false positives from Oncomine priority gene fusions. Example 2: NGS mutation method for identifying gene variants associated with cancer The purpose of data integration of the gene variants is to create the most complete set of mutation data currently available from TCGA. Data source-for this version, the following are integrated: TCGA Mutation data from bordetella GDAC mutation_ Packager 2013_02_22stddata build, grade 2 (public, experimentally unverified) data available from TCGA DCC by day 3, 2013, and kenpandisco generated Mutation data from TCGA raw data for prostate cancer. Kenpodia Company (CBI) mutant call-there is a problem that prostate adenocarcinoma mutant calls available from TCGA have low quality and produce false positive 'get function' predictions. Thus, all calls to this disease originate from the kenpandisia company's self-mutational call pipeline, which closely resembles the methods used by the TCGA cancer type working group to generate publicly available mutational calls. Table 12: data source selection Data cleansing-some simple cleansing operation is performed to remove duplicate mutation records present in the source data. Duplicate mutations were removed from various tumor/normal aliquot pairs from the same patient samples. A total of 25 'hypermutated gene' samples (mutation counts > 5,000 per sample) were also excluded from the downstream analysis line. In certain diseases (such as endometrial-like carcinoma of the uterus), several highly mutated samples may predominate in overall mutation counts and dilute the results of mutation reproduction analysis necessary for kenpandisco corporation mutation and gene classification procedures. Mutation annotation: A. kenpandisco company annotation-thus, the kenpandisco company method of defining mutations relies on accurate variant annotation; mutations are re-annotated using a standard annotation pipeline that ensures that mutations across disease types are consistently evaluated and subject to common interpretation during the naming of potential oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes. Mutations obtained from TCGA were treated by kenpandisco company according to the following general procedure: 1. each mutation was first remarked using the kenpan disco transcriptome. Successfully annotated mutations accept annotations from kenpandisia, while the remainder retained the annotations obtained from TCGA. The annotation comprises: variant classification, variant position, variant variation. 2. Redundant annotation of mutations in multiple transcripts was removed. 3. Mutations outside the relevant gene region are removed. 4. Mutations were removed without the effective gene Entrez ID. 'Mutation' is defined herein as a specific change at a genomic position, namely: chromosome, start, stop, reference base, substitution base, variant type (SNP, INS, DEL), and the like. 'Annotation' is defined herein as a set of transcript-specific properties that describe the effects of mutations, namely: genes, transcripts, variant classifications, variant changes, variant codon positions, and the like. In the mutation annotation step, mutations obtained from TCGA were re-annotated against a set of standard transcripts compiled by kenpandisa corporation. This transcriptome includes RefGene transcripts from hg18 and hg19 genomic constructs obtained from UCSCs. Each mutation is individually mapped against an contig in the CBI transcript set within the specified genome construction. SNP mutations map directly to have a starting position, while relevant positions are selected for small Insert (INS) and Deletion (DEL) mutations for mapping. For mutations that map successfully to transcripts, CBI mutation annotations were inferred relative to the transcripts. For mutations that cannot be mapped, more limited TCGA annotations are retained and variant positions for hotspot calculation are constructed based on genomic coordinates. The following is a description of criteria for annotating mutations mapped to CBI transcript sets: variant classification: for each mutation that successfully mapped to a transcript, the position of the mutation and the type of sequence variant are used to infer the variant classification. This approach identified the following major mutant variant classifications: table 13: major mutant variant classification: Variant position: the variant position of a mutation is a position used to identify a gene with a hot spot mutation, a mutation of a certain class observed at the same position in multiple tumor samples. In order to effectively identify hot spots reproducing and defining each mutation, a mutation point identifier covering the mutation position, the identity of the affected amino acid or base, and the classification of the variant is constructed. Mutations that occur at the same position independent of the particular base change they produce are aggregated. Thus, reference to only a base or amino acid is used to define a variant position. This ensures that mutations that affect the same codon or genomic position will be counted for possible hot spots, even if the resulting substitution alleles are different. For example, for a given gene, the missense mutations V600E, V F and V600G will both have the variant position of V600, and will thus be clustered together upon identification of the hotspot mutation. When amino acid-level positions are not available, RNA-level or genomic-level positions are used. For mutations that do not map to the CBI transcript set and therefore do not have transcript-based positions, the genomic position (starting position) and the reference nucleotide (reference allele) are used as variant positions independent of coding region or splice site proximity. Then, TCGA annotated variant classifications are added as suffixes. Variant changes of these mutations (see below) are undefined. Variant changes: variant changes provide HGVS-like information about the mutated alternative allele changes (e.g., V600E). For SNP mutations in the coding region, the variant changes are described as complete HGVS protein-level sequence variants, indicating the substitution of amino acids. For SNPs outside the coding region, alternative allele nucleotide bases are provided. For mutations that do not map to the CBI transcript set, the variant classification from TCGA was retained. Transcript filtration: to avoid searching multiple transcripts, and thus multiple annotations of a single mutation within one gene, only one transcript per mutation per gene (unique Entrez ID) is maintained. If a mutation maps to several transcripts of one gene, then only one transcript is selected. However, if the mutation maps to several genes, then only one transcript is selected for each gene. Thus, one mutation can accept two different annotations, but only if it comes from transcripts with different Entrez IDs. In fact, any mutation of the same variant class at the same genomic position is always assigned to the same transcript and will therefore be in the same frame of reference when computing the rendition of the hotspot identification. Gene region filtration: all mutations were further filtered by variant type and class to avoid inclusion of less relevant mutations into the gene function analysis. Mutations that do not resolve to the gene region are filtered out, either because they fall significantly outside the transcript, or because they are in a position unrelated to the RefSeq gene. These mutations are evident by their lack of gene identifiers or membership in the following variant classes: introns, 5' flanking sequences, IGR and miRNA. Mutations with DNP, TNP, ONP, complex_substitution (Complex_Substitution), and Indel variant types were also filtered out, as their annotations were not supported by the pipeline. The next step in classifying mutations as hot spots, deleterious or other-analysis pipelines identifies recurrent mutations in multiple samples based on the mutant variant position and classifies them into hot spot, deleterious or other variant categories. For this step and subsequent frequency calculations, mutations for each disease type are treated independently. Only mutations classified by the same variant are operated together, so that missense mutations and silent mutations at the same position are counted, respectively, for example. To identify driver events, each mutation of a given Entrez Gene Id is classified as a 'deleterious' or 'hot spot'. A mutation is considered to be 'reproducible' if it is observed in the same variant position in 3 or more tumor samples. If a mutation is reproducible and annotated by one of the following variant classifications: in-frame insertions/deletions, no termination, missense, non-coding exons, then the mutation belongs to the class of 'hot spot' variants. If a mutation is annotated by one of the following variant classifications: the frame shift insertion/deletion is nonsense, then the mutation belongs to the 'deleterious' class. If a mutation does not meet the criteria described above, the mutation is considered to be in the 'other' variant class. The designations 'acquire function' and 'lose function' genes-individual genes are categorized into predicted functional categories, i.e. 'acquire function', 'others reproduced' and 'lose function' to reflect their relative enrichment in potentially activating or deleterious mutations. Frequency of mutation: the mutation frequency of each gene is calculated relative to the given variant classifications and variant classes in all samples within a disease type. The overall mutation frequency of a gene within a disease is calculated by combining all mutations. Mutation significance: the probability p of observing r or more mutations at that location is determined by selecting the mutation m that is most reproducible and using sampling to calculate the hotspot p value for each gene within a disease. More precisely, the first and second contact surfaces, Where c m is the count of replicates with maximum multiplicity m. The P value of a transcript with a maximum multiplex of one is defined as 1.0. The P value of the transcript with the greatest multiplicity never observed was defined as 1e-5. The hot spot Q value within each disease was calculated by counting the number of transcripts (N) mutated at least once and calculating the rank of each p value. The Q value given for p is q=p×n/rank. To assess whether one gene is significantly enriched for deleterious mutations compared to the other gene, a Fisher's exacttest exact test was performed in view of the background mutation rate, comparing the frequency of deleterious mutations of the gene in question with the frequency of deleterious mutations of the other gene. Nonsense mutations, frameshift insertions and frameshift deletions are classified as deleterious mutations, whereas any other type (missense etc., but not intergenic) of mutation is used as the other count. The deleterious Q value within each disease was calculated by counting the number (N) of genes with deleterious mutations and calculating the rank of each correlation. The Q value given for p is q=p×n/rank. Classification of genes: once the mutations are classified, individual genes are named as one of three categories: 'get function', 'lose function' and 'others reproduced'. Classification is based on a combination of the relative frequencies and significance of mutations observed in the genes. The significance of each gene mutation was assessed by p-value. The classification flow in fig. 2 indicates criteria for obtaining functional and nonfunctional genes. 'Gain-of-function' genes will have a relatively high frequency of hot missense mutations and a low frequency of deleterious mutations, while 'loss-of-function' genes contain a greater portion of deleterious mutations. 'other' reproductions tend to contain reproducible insertion/deletion mutations, some of which (e.g., reproducible frameshift insertion deletions of 1 base) exhibit signs of potential false positive calls that may be caused by local alignment errors. Pan cancer analysis-to outline mutations across disease, the same calculations are performed for intra-disease analysis, but mutation recordings are not stratified according to disease. For the general disease gene classification, genes in all cancer types (unique according to Entrez ID) are summarized. Example 3: diagnostic assays for identifying gene fusions and/or gene variants in cancer Library preparation PCR amplification of genomic DNA targets The disclosed variants and fusion polynucleotides can be detected by sequencing of nucleic acids. This can be achieved by next generation sequencing (described below). The source of nucleic acid for next generation sequencing may include a Freshly Frozen Paraffin Embedded (FFPE) sample. Multiplex polymerase chain reaction was performed to amplify 384 individual amplicons within one genomic DNA sample. Pools of greater than 32,000 primers were developed covering over 100 gene variants or fusion polynucleotides. Each primer in the primer pool is designed to contain at least one uridine nucleotide near each primer end. Each primer is also designed to selectively hybridize to a particular gene, gene variant, or fusion polypeptide of a nucleic acid sample by forming a primer pair, and to facilitate amplification. To a single well of a 96-well PCR plate, 5. Mu.L of primer pool (containing 384 primer pairs at a concentration of 15. Mu.M in TE), 10-50ng of genomic DNA and 10. Mu.L of amplification reaction mixture (2X AMPLISEQ HIFI MASTER Mix, which may include glycerol, dNTPs andTaq high fidelity DNA polymerase, invitrogen, catalog No. 11304) and DNase/RNAse free water (Life technologies, calif., part No. 600004) reach a final volume of 20 microliters. Sealing and loading the PCR plate into a thermal cyclerPCR system 9700 was run in a double 96-well thermocycler (life technologies, part No. N8050200 and 4314445, california) and using the following temperature profile to generate a pre-amplified amplicon library. The initial hold stage was performed at 98 ℃ for 2 minutes, followed by 16 denaturation cycles at 98 ℃ for 15 seconds, and the bonding and extension stage was performed at 60 ℃ for 4 minutes. After cycling, the pre-amplified amplicon library was kept at 4 ℃ until proceeding to the purification step outlined below. Purification of amplicons from input DNA and primers Finding two rounds ofXP reagent (Beckman Coulter, calif.) binds, washes and elutes at 0.6Xand 1.2 Xvolume ratios removes genomic DNA and unbound or excess primers the amplification and purification steps outlined herein yield amplicons of about 100bp to about 600bp in length. Pre-amplified amplicon library (20. Mu.l) was combined with 12. Mu.l (0.6Xvol) in a 1.5ml LoBind tube (Ai Bende Co., ltd., part number 022431021)XP reagent (Beckmann Kort company, california) combination. The bead suspension is aspirated up and down to thoroughly mix the bead suspension with the pre-amplified amplicon library. The samples were then pulsed spun and incubated for 5 minutes at room temperature. The tube containing the sample is placed on a magnetic rack (e.g., dynaMag TM -2 spinmagnet (part number 123-21D, life technologies, calif.) for 2 minutes to capture the beads. Once the solution is clear, the supernatant is transferred to a fresh tube, where 24 microliters (1.2 Xvolume) are added to the supernatantXP beads (Beckmann Kort, calif.). The mixture was aspirated to ensure mixing of the bead suspension with the pre-amplified amplicon library. The samples were then pulsed spun and incubated for 5 minutes at room temperature. The tube containing the sample was placed on a magnetic rack for 2 minutes to capture the beads. Once the solution was clear, the supernatant was carefully discarded and the bead set was not disturbed. The library of desired pre-amplified amplicons is then bound to beads. 200 microliters of freshly prepared 70% ethanol was introduced into the sample without removing the tube from the magnet rack. The samples were incubated for 30 seconds while the tubes were gently rotated on a magnetic rack. After the solution was clarified, the supernatant was discarded and the pellet was not disturbed. A second ethanol wash was performed and the supernatant discarded. Any remaining ethanol was removed by pulsing the tube and the remaining ethanol was carefully removed without disturbing the pellet. The pellet was air dried at room temperature for about 5 minutes. Once the tube was dry, the tube was removed from the magnet rack and 20 microliters of DNase/RNAse free water (Life technologies, part number 600004, calif.) was added. The tube was vortexed and aspirated to ensure thorough mixing of the samples. The sample pulse was spun and placed on a magnetic rack for two minutes. After clarification of the solution, the supernatant containing the eluted DNA was transferred to a new tube. Phosphorylated amplicon To the eluted DNA (about 20. Mu.l) was added 3. Mu.l of DNA ligase buffer (England, cat. No. 15224041), 2. Mu.l of dNTP mix and 2. Mu.l of FuP reagent. The reaction mixture was thoroughly mixed to ensure homogeneity and incubated at 37 ℃ for 10 minutes. Ligating adaptors to the amplicons and purifying the ligated amplicons After incubation, the reaction mixture proceeds directly to the ligation step. Here, the reaction mixture now containing the phosphorylated amplicon library was combined with 1 microliter of A/P1 adaptors (20 μm each) (sold as a component of Ion fragment library kit, life technologies Co., part number 4466464) and 1 microliter of DNA ligase (sold as a component of Ion fragment library kit, life technologies Co., part number 4466464) and incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature. After the incubation step, 52 microliters (1.8 x sample volume) was addedReagents (beckmann coulter, california) were added to the ligated DNA. The mixture was thoroughly aspirated to mix the bead suspension with the ligated DNA. The mixture was pulsed spun and incubated at room temperature for 5 minutes. The sample is subjected to an additional two minutes of pulsed spin and placed on a magnetic rack, such as DynaMag TM -2 spin magnet (part number 123-21D, life technologies, california). After the solution was clear, the supernatant was discarded. 200 microliters of freshly prepared 70% ethanol was introduced into the sample without removing the tube from the magnet rack. The samples were incubated for 30 seconds while the tubes were gently rotated on a magnetic rack. After the solution was clarified, the supernatant was discarded and the pellet was not disturbed. A second ethanol wash was performed and the supernatant discarded. Any remaining ethanol was removed by pulsing the tube and the remaining ethanol was carefully removed without disturbing the pellet. The pellet was air dried at room temperature for about 5 minutes. The pellet was resuspended in 20 microliters of DNase/RNase free water (Life technologies, part number 600004, calif.) and vortexed to ensure thorough mixing of the samples. The sample pulse was spun and placed on a magnetic rack for two minutes. After clarification of the solution, the supernatant containing the ligated DNA was transferred to a new Lobind tube (Ai Bende, part number 022431021). Nick-switching and amplification of amplicon libraries and purification of the library The ligated DNA (about 20. Mu.l) was then mixed with 76. Mu.lPCR high fidelity super mix (SuperMix HIGH FIDELITY) (part number 12532-016, part number sold as a component of Ion fragment library kit, part number 4466464, part number of Life technologies Co., calif.) and 4 microliter library amplification primer mix (5. Mu.M each) (part number 602-1068-01, part number sold as a component of Ion fragment library kit, part number 4466464, part number of Life technologies Co., calif.) were combined, and the mixture was thoroughly blown to ensure a uniform solution. The solution was applied to a single well of a 96-well PCR plate and sealed. Loading the plate into a thermal cycler (/ >)PCR system 9700 was run in a double 96-well thermocycler (life technologies, part No. N8050200 and 4314445, california) and on the following temperature profile to generate the final amplicon library. Notch translation was performed at 72℃for 1 minute, followed by an enzyme activation stage at 98℃for 2 minutes, followed by denaturation of 5-10 cycles at 98℃for 15 seconds, and an adhesion and extension stage at 60℃for 1 minute. After cycling, the final amplicon library was kept at 4 ℃ until proceeding to the final purification step outlined below. In a 1.5ml LoBind tube (Ai Bende, part number 022431021), the final amplicon library (about 100. Mu.l) was compared to 180. Mu.l (1.8X sample volume)XP reagent (Beckmann Kort company, california) combination. The bead suspension was aspirated up and down to thoroughly mix the bead suspension with the final amplicon library. The samples were then pulsed spun and incubated for 5 minutes at room temperature. The tube containing the final amplicon library was placed on a magnetic rack (e.g., dynaMag TM -2 spinmagnet (part number 123-21D, life technologies, california)) for 2 minutes to capture the beads. Once the solution was clear, the supernatant was carefully discarded and the bead set was not disturbed. 400 microliters of freshly prepared 70% ethanol was introduced into the sample without removing the tube from the magnet rack. The samples were incubated for 30 seconds while the tubes were gently rotated on a magnetic rack. After the solution was clarified, the supernatant was discarded and the pellet was not disturbed. A second ethanol wash was performed and the supernatant discarded. Any remaining ethanol was removed by pulsing the tube and the remaining ethanol was carefully removed without disturbing the pellet. The pellet was air dried at room temperature for about 5 minutes. Once the tube was dry, the tube was removed from the magnet rack and 20 microliters of Low TE (part number 602-1066-01, life technologies, calif.) was added. The tube was blown and vortexed to ensure thorough mixing of the samples. The sample pulse was spun and placed on a magnetic rack for two minutes. After clarification of the solution, the supernatant containing the final amplicon library was transferred to a new Lobind tube (Ai Bende, part number 022431021). Evaluating library size distribution and determining template dilution factor The final amplicon library is quantified to determine library dilution (template dilution factor) that yields a concentration within the optimal target range for template preparation (e.g., PCR-mediated addition of library molecules to Ion Sphere TM particles). The final amplicon library is typically quantified for downstream template preparation procedures using Ion library quantification kit (qPCR) (life technologies, part number 4468802) and/or Bioanalyzer TM (Agilent technologies (Agilent Technologies), agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer) to determine the molar concentration of the amplicon library from which the template dilution factor is calculated. For example, instructions for determining template dilution coefficients by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) can be found in Ion library quantification kit user guidance (life technologies, part number 4468986), which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In this example, 1 microliter of the final amplicon library preparation was analyzed on a 2100Bioanalyzer TM using the Agilent highly sensitive DNA kit (Agilent technologies, part number 5067-4626) to produce a peak in the size range of 135-205bp at a concentration of about 5×10 9 copies per microliter. Proceed to template preparation An aliquot of the final library was used to prepare DNA templates that were clonally amplified using emulsion PCR (emPCR) on Ion Sphere TM particles. Preparation of templates in examples of the invention was prepared using IonXpress template kit (Life technologies Co., part number 4466457) according to the manufacturer's instructions, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Once the template positive Ion Sphere particles were enriched, an aliquot of Ion Spheres was loaded onto an Ion 314 TM chip (life technologies, part number 4462923) as described in Ion sequencing user instructions (part number 4467391, all of which are incorporated herein) and subjected to analysis and sequencing as described in Ion Torrent PGM sequencer user instructions (life technologies, part number 4462917, all of which are incorporated herein). Example 4: oncomine NGS integration analysis method for identifying gene events related to clinical results Oncomine NGS integration analysis is designed to bring together the largest possible core NGS data sets, enabling scientific workflow of querying relationships between data types and diseases, the analysis being summarized under multiple abstract biological levels (such as genes and pathways). Data sources (Oncomine available from Life technologies/Kenpodia biosciences (Compendia Biosciences) -Annabao, michigan and Hypertext transfer protocol:// www.oncominc.org) Data from the integrated analysis were obtained from the following sources: fusion: oncomine driver gene fusion Mutation: oncomine cancer-causing gene mutation CNV: peak amplification and deletion data obtained from Oncomine processed copy number data DNA: oncomine processed DNA sequence (DNA-seq) continuous data RNA: normalized gene-level RNA sequence (RNAseq) continuous data Clinical application: oncomine managed clinical and outcome metadata Path: oncomine Path definition Fusion data and filtering Fusion data for the integration analysis was obtained from Oncomine NGS fusion data. Oncomine prioritized fusions are a priority flow developed in kenpandisco corporation for capturing attributes of known true positive fusion events and characterizing a subset of observed gene fusions as high confidence priority fusions. Criteria for defining a priority fusion include: efficient 5 'to 3' orientation, non-adjacent fusion partner, unique mapping across reads, non-parallel homologous fusion partner, no observation in normal tissue, and no overlap with redundant regions in the genome. If the fusion passes deFuse or Tophat calls, has evidence of exon expression of 'supported' or 'neutral' and one of the following 4 criteria is met, then the fusion is included and considered to be a driver gene fusion: oncomine prioritized fusion + rendition Oncomine prioritized fusion + Mitelman annotated Oncomine prioritized fusions+one partner is a Oncomine gain-of-function gene that involves 3 or more pan-disease-prioritized fusions Oncomine prioritized fusion+A partner is the Mulberry oncogene (http:// goo. Gl/JQBw) involved in3 or more pan-disease prioritized fusion Mutation data and filtration Mutation data for the integration analysis was obtained from Oncomine NGS mutation data. Individual genes are categorized into predicted functional categories, i.e. 'gain-of-function' and 'loss-of-function', to reflect their relative enrichment in potentially activating or deleterious mutations. This classification is based on a combination of the relative frequency and significance of mutations observed in genes assessed by p-values. 'gain-of-function' genes will have a relatively high frequency of hot missense mutations and a low frequency of deleterious mutations, while 'loss-of-function' genes contain a greater portion of deleterious mutations. Copy number sectorization and quantification DNA copy number data for each TCGA sample was obtained from Oncomine. The measurements of multiple reporter genes for a single gene are averaged. Minimum Common Region (MCR) peak generation In reproducibly amplified (4 or more copies) or deleted (1 or less copies) genes, peaks were identified independently in 25 cancer types by applying MCR analysis to Oncomine clinical samples. To define peaks, successive genomic regions (consensus regions) of significant abnormalities of multiple genes are first identified. In each common region, a peak is defined as one or more genes whose abnormal sample count meets or exceeds a peak threshold. In each cancer, a shared region is defined as a region where abnormal sample counts meet or exceed a shared region threshold. The baseline average of abnormal samples observed in all genes of each arm of each chromosome in each cancer was calculated. MRNA Gene expression Expression data were obtained from TCGA standard data of bordeted GDAC. Clinical data management Patient clinical data was obtained from TCGA and managed by kenpandisco corporation. The data types managed include demographics, major clinical and histological disease subtypes, and clinical outcome data. All properties were normalized to be consistent in each disease. Construction of clinically relevant subsets The managed clinical data and Oncomine NGS data obtained from TCGA were used and the rules in table 14 were applied to define the clinical subset: TABLE 14 rules defining clinical subsets Path Manually managed kenpandisa path definitions are used to outline gene level aberrations in the integration analysis. The pathways represent clinically relevant pathway modules, and several modules may cover a primary biological pathway, and a single gene may be present in one or more pathway module definitions. Data integration The diagram in fig. 3 outlines the data flow for integrating various data types into the gene event Database (GENETIC EVENT Database, GEDB). All further analyses were performed using GEDB. The method has 4 main steps. Mapping data to internal IA genes and patient dimensions Defining events and driver gene events in each data type Rolling up individual events to the gene and path level The events are incorporated into a genetic event database. Gene and patient dimension A single gene and patient dimension is constructed that encompasses all patients and genes measured in all diseases and data types. Gene and patient internal identifiers are given and all data in IA are referenced against these identifiers to achieve gene name and patient barcode consistency. The unique identifier of a gene is the Entrez ID of the gene. The unique identifier for a patient is the TCGA patient bar code (the first 12 digits of the TCGA bar code). Driver event definition Mutations, fusions and copy number events are defined based on the following criteria for genomic events: Fusion: oncomine reproduced priority fusion Mutation: oncomine driver mutations from pan-cancer driver CNV: CBI identified peaks and in-peak gene amplification/deletion Gene event definition and roll-up A genetic event is a genomic aberration representing an individual mutation, fusion or copy number event, or a combination of events at the gene or pathway level. The event is 'rolled up' according to the flow chart shown in fig. 4. When multiple events are combined to construct a scroll event, the measured patient group for the scroll event becomes the intersection of patients measured for all 3 data types. Patient positives are included only when fully measured. Analysis Once all driver gene events are constructed, a set of analyses is performed for each gene event, calculating the frequency, relevance and relationship within the disease (and, where appropriate, the pan-cancer). The following is a brief description of each analysis: Frequency of Frequency is the occurrence of driver gene events among patients measured for the driver gene events. The frequency within disease and pan-cancer is calculated. Analysis of clinical relevance Each driver event was tested for correlation with respect to a set of available clinical subtypes. Each correlation was tested using the fischer accurate test by comparing the occurrence of genetic events in patients of one clinical subtype versus another. For example, overexpression of loss-of-function mutations can be tested in smokers versus non-smokers, or in stage I versus stage II lung cancer. A total of 136 subtype pairs were tested for each event, with the characteristics defining the subtypes listed below (some characteristics may be disease-specific). A total of at least 4 patients (and at least 1 patient in each category) are required to perform the test. Analysis of clinical outcome The correlation of each driver gene event with clinical outcome was tested using a log rank test. Only the patient group with available clinical data is used for calculation, so the number of patients included in the test may be less than the number of patients measured for the driver gene event. At least 4 patients positive for driving gene events are required to perform the test. Survival time was presented in years, and individual survival/death events were clearly marked on the Kaplan-Meier curve (Kaplan-Meier curve). The p-values (q-values) of the multiple tests are corrected. Consider an event with q less than 0.1. The results of the analysis are shown in tables 15 and 39. In tables 15 and 39, each column provides the following information: The 'subset' column provides clinically relevant cancer types. The p-value column is the p-value. The q value column is the corrected p value. Events with q < 0.1 are included in the table. The number of positives column is the number of patients positive for one event type. The total number of patients column is the total number of patients evaluated. Column Cytoband is the chromosomal location of the gene. The gene (Entrez ID) column is a list of genes and corresponding Entrez IDs. The pharmaceutically acceptable gene column indicates whether any genes are the target of a drug that is active, approved, or otherwise commercially available. The KM evidence column provides kaplan-Meier evidence. KM evidence indicates whether the event type supports a good or poor prognosis in a particular cancer type. Tables 15 and 39 contain more than 100 gain-of-function mutations, loss-of-function mutations, in-peak gene amplifications/deletions and fusion events for various cancer types with q < 0.1. Genes within each event and cancer type are included along with their chromosomal location, pharmacy information, and correlation of clinical outcome, as indicated in the column information above. Example 5-Integrated data analysis Oncomine NGS Integrated analysis Oncomine NGS integrated analysis is designed to bring together the most likely core integrated genomics and phenomic datasets, enabling scientific workflow of querying relationships between data types and diseases, outlined at multiple abstract biological levels (such as genes and pathways). Terminology: aberration-genomic structural variation or change of DNA; examples include: mRNA overexpression/underexpression, copy number amplification/deletion, mutation, and gene fusion. Driver-aberration identified as potential cancer driver by the Oncomine method described in this document; examples include mutations that gain function, gene amplification in the peak amplification region, or gene fusions. A summary of all mutations, fusions or copy number aberrations of the rolled up gene or pathway; only patients measured for all three distortion types are included in the upper roll. Hot mutations-reproduced (n.gtoreq.3) and classified as in-frame insertions/deletions, no termination or missense mutations. Patient empty group-patient group for one gene aberration measurement Patient positive group-patient group containing genetic aberrations Genome empty-genome measured by an experimental platform for assessing genetic aberrations Mitelman-database of chromosomal aberrations and gene fusions in cancers artificially managed from the literature (Hypertext transfer protocol:// goo. Gl/PnXMT) RPKM- 'read per million kilobases'; methods for quantifying RNASeq data normalized to total read length and number of sequencing reads (Mortazavitamin (Mortazavi) et al 2008) RSEM- 'RNASeq data quantification by the desired maximization of RNA-Seq' for estimating the best possible distribution of reads between expected transcripts provides relative transcript abundance as part of the total read pool (Li) and Du Wei (Dewey) 2011) Efforts were made to collect the largest overlapping set of data available for each sample. Data in this version of the NGS integration analysis browser is obtained from cancer genomic maps (TCGA), cancer cell line Encyclopedia (CANCER CELL LINE Encyclopedia, CCLE), COSMIC cell line project and many research publications, either directly or after undergoing Oncomine processing and analysis methods. Some cancer types have a greater number of patients covered in multiple data types due to the non-uniform coverage of all data types in the source data set. The Oncomine NGS mutant versions for integration analysis contained many manually managed datasets obtained from NGS mutation studies in peer-reviewed publications. For a complete list of publications contributing mutation data for the integration analysis, see Oncomine NGS mutation methods. The following dataset contains multidimensional NGS data, providing both mutation and copy number data. The copy number data of these datasets are processed in the same way as the copy number data obtained from the TCGA. Cell factor data includes mutations, fusions and copy number datasets. Cell line data were processed in the same manner as clinical tumor data, and mutation and fusion cell line data were obtained from Oncomine TM NGS mutation and Oncomine TM NGS fusion power tool, respectively. Copy number data for cell lines were processed using a standard Oncomine copy number pipeline. Although two disparate cell line datasets CCLE and COSMIC were used, our standardization of cell line disease types and names has enabled us to cross-reference the two datasets and combine CCLE copy number data, COSMIC mutation data, and Oncomine fusion calls (based on CCLERNASEQ data). Thus, the exome of many cell lines in this version has been systematically characterized for all three types of aberrations. Cell line data was summarized using Oncomine cancer type definitions that would be directly comparable to tumor data, but the summaries were performed for tumors and cell lines, respectively. Phenomic data Patient clinical data was obtained from a raw source and managed by kenpandisia corporation. The data types managed include demographics, major clinical and histological disease subtypes, and clinical outcome data. All cancer type-independent characteristics (such as age or survival) are normalized to achieve uniformity in cancer type. Certain disease stages are combined to obtain a higher patient count within one stage. For example, phase Ia and phase Ib may be combined as modified phase I. The following is a list of most densely populated characteristics and corresponding values captured by the management method. Not all characteristics are available to all patients. The characteristics prefixed with 'TCGA' are obtained and managed by TCGA publications defining molecular subtypes of invasive breast cancer, glioblastoma, squamous cell lung cancer and colorectal cancer. Genomic event data: the fusion data of the integration analysis browser was obtained from Oncomine NGS fusion data published in 2013, 11. Only fusions identified as Oncomine priority fusions are included in the integrated analysis browser. Oncomine prioritized fusions are a priority flow developed in kenpandisco corporation for capturing attributes of known true positive fusion events and characterizing a subset of observed gene fusions as high confidence priority fusions. Criteria for defining a priority fusion include: efficient 5 'to 3' orientation, non-adjacent fusion partner, unique mapping across reads, non-parallel homologous fusion partner, no observation in normal tissue, and no overlap with redundant regions in the genome. The empty patient group of fusion data is the complete patient tumor sample group processed in the fusion assay; only one tumor sample (preferably, primary, non-recurrent tumor) data is retained per patient. The empty genome is the genome in RefGene by 2012. If the fusion is Oncomine priority fusion, with 'supported' or 'neutral' exon evidence and one of the following criteria is met, then the fusion is included in the integrated analysis browser: reproduction (in 2 or more patients) Annotating in Mitelman databases of known structural variations Gene collocation containing Oncomine gain-of-function gene as fusion involving 3 or more pan-disease priorities Contains a gene collocation of Mulberry oncogene (Hypertext transfer protocol:// goo.gl/JQBw 9) as fusion of 3 or more pan-disease priorities. Mutation data for the integrated analysis was obtained from Oncomine NGS mutation data published 11 in 2013. Only non-silent mutations in the coding gene region are included in the integrated analysis browser. The empty patient group is the complete patient group treated in the mutation analysis; only one tumor sample (preferably, primary, non-recurrent tumor) data is retained per patient. The empty genome is the genome in RefGene by 3 in 2012. Mutations with the following variant classifications were not included in the integrated analysis browser: silencing, 5'UTR, 3' UTR, RNA, non-coding exons. DNA copy number data for each sample was obtained from 2013 Q4 Oncomine standard data construction, where all copy number data available from TCGA and manually managed publications up to 10 months 2013 were normalized. The empty patient groups for this analysis were the patient groups measured for copy number data by 10 months 2013 and the patient groups measured in the manually administered publications. Only one tumor sample (preferably, primary, non-recurrent tumor) data is retained per patient. The genome null of this data was a Oncomine DNA copy number platform based on RefSeq coordinates (hg 18) provided by UCSC RefGene construction, month 7 of 2009, and 18,796 genes were measured. The measurements of multiple reporter genes for a single gene are averaged. The log2 of the estimated copy values was used to make an amplify/delete (amp/del) call, and the cut-off values were > 1.0 and < -1.0, respectively. No amp/del calls made log2 (estimated copy) of ≡1.0 or ≡ +1.0. Genomics continuous data: DNA copy number data for each sample was obtained from 2013 Q4 on line standard data construction, where all copy number data available from TCGA by month 9 of 2013 and all copy number data from manually managed publications were normalized. The empty patient groups for this analysis were the TCGA patient group measured for copy number data by 10 months 2013 and the patient group measured in the manually administered publications. Only one tumor sample (preferably, primary, non-recurrent tumor) data is retained per patient. The genome null of this data was a Oncomine DNA copy number platform based on RefSeq coordinates (hg 18) provided by UCSC RefGene construction, month 7 of 2009, and 18,796 genes were measured. The measurements of multiple reporter genes for a single gene are averaged. Copy number data is segmented and quantified using standard Oncomine processing pipelines. Segmentation is a method for identifying amplified or deleted contiguous regions. These regions or 'segments' may include multiple genes or a single gene. The copy number of each segment is calculated based on the average value of the reporter gene contained in the segment. Genes are mapped to segments and assigned a value. This gene level data was then reported. See Oncomine DNA for more information on processing a pipelined white book (Oncomine DNA Processing PIPELINE WHITE PAPER). Expression data were constructed from TCGA standard data from bordetella GDAC, 9 months 2013. The empty patient group of this data is the patient group with RNASeq data available in the bordetention GDAC 2013_08_09 stddata build; only one tumor sample (preferably, primary, non-recurrent tumor) data is retained per patient. The genome of this data differs according to disease and corresponds to the TCGA gene annotation file for RNASeq quantification (Gene Annotation File, GAF). TCGA currently employs two RNASeq quantification methods V1 (RPKM) and V2 (RSEM), which are not directly comparable in value. To avoid possible inaccurate numerical conversions, we use data from a single quantitative method on a per disease basis, selecting a format based on maximum coverage. Consistent with the TCGA's effort to process (and reprocess) all available RNASeq data using RSEM (V2), RSEM (V2) data is available for most samples. The exception is gastric adenocarcinoma, where RPKM (V1) data is used. Normalized gene level quantitative values for both RSEM and RPKM were obtained and converted to log2 values (the minimum non-zero RPKM or RSEM values were set at-12). A gene is considered to be expressed if its log 2 value > -12. Oncomine drive gene reference data: to identify cancer driver genes that undergo amplification and deletion, a peak clustering approach is performed to select genes that are frequently abnormal in multiple cancer types. A first copy number peak in a maximum available copy number dataset (i.e., beyond which data is included in the integrated analysis) within many cancer types is defined. Next, the gene list defined by the peaks is aggregated to identify genes that occur in copy number peaks in multiple samples and multiple diseases. Some of the methods are described in more detail below. The aberrations may be categorized as 'driver' aberrations, or as potentially interesting aberrations according to one of the data type specific Oncomine classification methods. Driver gene aberrations will be captured as events independent of other aberrations (non-driver gene aberrations are referred to as 'any'). For example, a patient with a 'driver' mutation will be positive for both aberrations ('driver' mutation and 'any' mutation). Each of the measured data types has a set of rules that determine driving gene events. A set of contiguous genomic regions that underwent amplification or deletion were identified using Oncomine MCR analysis by applying them to 10,249 clinical samples of Oncomine grouped into 25 cancers. The empty group of patients defined by the peak was 10,249 clinical samples from Oncomine (see table below). The genome null of this data was a Oncomine DNA copy number platform based on RefSeq coordinates (hg 18) provided by UCSC refGene construction, month 7 of 2009, and 18,796 genes were measured. Data from the Minimum Consensus Region (MCR) analysis was derived from a Oncomine DNA copy number browser containing > 20,000 clinical specimens, xenografts and cell lines across different cancer types. MCR analysis identifies regions of reproducible copy number amplification or deletion by analyzing data at three levels: pan-cancer (among all cancer types), common cancer types (among multiple cancer types), and mid-cancer types or specific cancer subtypes. Briefly, the method first calculates a Consensus Region (CR) defined as a contiguous genomic region amplified or deleted in 2 or more samples. The minimum threshold values for amplification and deletion are set to be log 2. Gtoreq.0.9 (3.7 copies or more) and log 2. Ltoreq.0.9 (1 copy or less), respectively. The peak regions within these consensus regions are then defined as (i) one or more genes that are abnormal in the highest number of samples (n) and one or more genes that are abnormal in samples (n-1) that are one less than the highest number and (ii) genes that are abnormal in the highest abnormal sample count of 90%. MCR analysis is performed. The peak regions identified by MCR analysis were further filtered among the three analysis types (i.e., pan-cancer, general cancer type, and specific cancer type analysis) using the criteria listed in the table below. It should be noted that only a selected number (about 40) of mid-term or specific cancer types (also further listed below) are included. Filter criteria for identifying highly amplified/deleted regions from MCR analysis: The selected mid-term or specific cancer type included in the filtering criteria described above: Next, to identify the most reproducible peak regions and genes across multiple cancer types, we used Cytoscape.8.3 [ Ma Keer (Markiel) et al 2003; stent (Smoot) et al 2001] to construct network clusters. Briefly, the analysis compares each gene in a given peak region with genes in other peak regions and clusters peaks with at least one common gene. The genes that reproduce the most amplified or deleted within each cluster are then considered potential candidate driver genes. The method is outlined in the schematic below: To provide a subset of patients for more focused analysis, a combination of clinical phenotype and category genomic data is used to identify and manage several clinically relevant cancer subtypes. Phenotype data originates from TCGA Web portals (TCGA Web portals) or supplementary methods of manually managed publications. The following rules are applied to define a clinical subset: The Kenppandisia path definition of manual management is used to summarize gene level aberrations in the integrated analysis browser. The pathways represent clinically relevant pathway modules, and several modules may cover the primary biological pathway. A single gene may be present in one or more path definitions, but care should be taken to eliminate substantially redundant paths in which one module is a complete subset of another. There are a total of 67 pathways, ranging in size from 42 genes (e.g., MAPK pathway) to 2 genes (e.g., IGF1/IGF1R and several other pathways). This section outlines the data flow that integrates raw data into common patient and gene dimensions and builds a Gene Event Database (GEDB) containing all aberrations that will be subject to the integration analysis. The method has 4 main steps: (1) Integrating raw data using common genes and patient dimensions; (2) Calling a distortion event of each data type and defining driving gene distortion; (3) Individual events are rolled up to the gene and path level and events are integrated; and (4) constructing a genetic event database by defining the patient status of each event. The varying data types included in the integrated analysis may have been measured on different experimental platforms and for patient groups that do not overlap exactly. Thus, all patients and genes measured are carefully included while duplicate or conflicting entries are avoided. For each data type, a gene and patient 'dimension' is constructed, enumerating genes and patients measured in the data. The dimensions of each data type may be different, as indicated by the following patient dimension overlay diagram (the numbers are for illustration only), in this case for invasive breast cancer. Genes and patient dimensions were collected from each cancer and data type, and a non-redundant superset of all patients and gene identifiers was constructed in the integrated analysis. Bars in the following figures represent data blocks of patient identifiers (if sorted by the identifiers) for patients measured for certain distortion types. Patient redundancy is determined based on a unique patient identifier, currently the first 12 characters of the TCGA tumor sample bar code (e.g., TCGA-AB-1234). Redundancy of genes is determined based on unique Gene identifiers (currently Entrez Gene ID). Genes are also compared against Oncomine genomes and when a gene symbol conflict is found (one Entrez ID assigns two or more gene symbols), the gene symbol from Oncomine is used. Several (12) measured genes contained the stopped Entrez ID and therefore may not represent the most accurate gene model. The genetic symbols of these genes are labeled with the word 'stop'. Once constructed, the non-redundant genes and patient dimensions are indexed to provide consistent internal identifiers for each gene and patient in the dataset. All unique patient and gene identifiers in the raw data are then mapped to dimensional patient and gene identifiers. Thus, gene and patient metadata (e.g., gene symbols and patient clinical data) always provide consistency in naming and annotation via corresponding dimension mappings. The total number of unique genes and patients in the integration assay is as follows: The patient dimension together with the mapping specific to the patient's dataset helps to correctly identify a fully wild-type patient (a patient who measured all types of aberrations but did not contain any aberrations). The patient may thus measure any number of aberrations, and may be abnormal only for those events that are measured. To determine the type of analysis, the patient is measured for distortion, which will be included in each of the following: * 'for clinical measurements' indicates that clinical metadata is presented for the patient. Each genomic aberration from the mutation, fusion, and copy number dataset is identified as a aberration event (a term used to define the relevant event that will undergo various predefined integration analyses). Each aberration is part of three broad-level events (data type specific events, gene specific but data type independent events, and path specific but gene or data type independent events). The latter two layers are considered 'roll-up' events. The specific rules of aberration event definition, and 'layer' and 'driver' flows are described below. Oncomine general cancer mutation classification: if the mutation is: reproduced (occurring at the same amino acid position in 3 or more samples) and annotated with one of the following variant classifications: in-frame insertion/deletion, no termination missense, then the classification is 'hot spot'. If the mutation is: unrepeated and annotated with one of the following variant classifications: frameshift insertions/deletions, nonsense, then the mutation is classified as 'deleterious'. Reproducibility was measured as part of Oncomine NGS mutation browser at all cancer types analyzed. Oncomine Classification of cancer genes As part of the Oncomine NGS mutation browser pipeline, individual genes are categorized into predicted functional categories, namely 'acquired function' and 'nonfunctional' to reflect their relative enrichment in potentially activating or deleterious mutations. This classification is based on a combination of the relative frequency and significance of mutations observed in genes assessed by p-values. 'gain-of-function' genes will have a relatively high frequency of hot spots (reproduced in 3 or more samples) missense mutations and a lower frequency of deleterious mutations, while 'loss-of-function' genes contain a greater portion of deleterious mutations. The pan-cancer gene classification is based on mutations observed in all cancer types. For each patient gene mutation (as defined by the mutation data filtering section), one or two mutation events will be formed, depending on whether the mutation is classified as driving gene aberration. Driver gene mutation aberration is defined as a 'hot spot' mutation present in a 'gain of function' gene, or a 'hot spot' or 'deleterious' mutation present in a 'loss of function' gene. For driver mutations, both driver events and any event are formed. For non-driven gene mutations, only one event is formed. Pan-cancer mutations and gene classification were used for all analysis subsets; thus, the genetic classification may sometimes differ between the integration analysis and Oncomine NGS mutation browser. The following table gives descriptions and examples of mutation events that can be formed for each gene: Only Oncomine priority fusions are included in the integration analysis. In priority fusions, driver gene fusions are defined as fusions that mark known oncogenes by Mitelman database, or fusions that do not have sufficient exon expression data and reproduce, or fusions that have significant p-values of exon expression imbalance of both exon expression data and two gene complexes (see Oncomine NGS fusion method data for details regarding exon imbalance classification). For each gene, each uniquely observed 5'-3' for the gene-match was combined to form one event. For example, for PML-RARA balanced translocation, two isoforms are observed, and thus two fusion events will be invoked for PML-RARA and RARA-PML, respectively. Each amplification/deletion called (see call amplification/deletion) is defined as any event of an abnormal gene. If amplification/deletion occurs in a gene that is part of the peak definition (see MCR peak generation) in a certain cancer type, then a driver gene amplification deletion event for that gene is also formed. Thus, the driver gene definition of copy number events is specific to the type of cancer. The following are copy number aberration events that can be invoked for gene amplification or deletion: the genes and any events are driven to 'scroll' to gene-level and path-level events to capture data type independent aberration statistics and correlations. For example, it may be interesting to see the correlation of any aberrations in tumor suppressor genes with clinical outcome, not just the correlation of deleterious mutations. A gene level aberration event is formed for each gene having at least one aberration of any data type. Path-level aberration events are formed for each path in which at least one of the component genes has aberration of any data type. The driver gene and any aberrations are independently rolled up into the gene level or path level driver gene or any event. The following figures show the hierarchical relationship between various distortion event types. The patient may measure any number of aberrations, but may be abnormal for only those events that are measured. Thus, patient status for each event level aberration is recorded as abnormal, wild-type, or unmeasured. The patient dimension together with the mapping specific to the patient's dataset helps to correctly identify a fully wild-type patient (a patient who measured all types of aberrations but did not contain any aberrations). When gene-level and pathway-level events are defined, only patients who measured all 3 gene data types (mutations, fusions and copy numbers) are labeled as 'abnormal' or 'wild-type' for the event. This hypothesis has the effect of potentially reducing the number of patients summarized for gene or pathway level aberrations compared to event level aberrations specific to the data type. A patient is considered to be a genetic level event abnormality if at least one of the patient's event level aberration types (fusion, mutation, amplification, or deletion) is abnormal. A patient is considered to be a pathway-level event abnormality if the patient has a aberration in at least one gene that is part of the pathway definition. In each case, the patient must have measured all event types. In the case of obtaining functions and fusions, the distortion frequency was about 50%. For driver gene aberration events, the aberration frequency is also about 50%, but only half of the patients are included in the numerator and denominator of the frequency. Once all driver gene events are constructed, a set of analyses is performed for each gene event to calculate the frequency, relatedness and relationship between the cancer type, within clinically relevant subtypes and between cancer types (pan-cancer). The following is a brief description of each analysis, including what data to use and what constraints, if any, to place on the reported results: frequency, frequency of expression, co-occurrence and mutual exclusivity, clinical relevance analysis, and the like. Frequency is the occurrence of distortion between patients whose distortion is measured. The frequency within cancer types, clinically relevant cancer subtypes and pan-cancers is calculated. All events are reported with at least one abnormal patient. The frequency of expression is the frequency of gene expression among event positive patients. For each event, the expression level of the gene was used to confirm the frequency of expression. The frequency within the cancer types and clinically relevant cancer subtypes but not the pan-cancers is calculated. The co-occurrence and mutual exclusivity of each pair of events is calculated using a fischer exact test. At least 2 patients positive for each event and 5 patients measuring all events are required for calculation. The co-occurrence or exclusivity of two individual copy number deletion or amplification events is not calculated. Furthermore, co-occurrence and mutual exclusivity between pairs of events with 'any' driver status (i.e., comparing only driver versus driver and driver versus any) was not calculated. The correlation within the cancer type and clinically relevant cancer subtypes but not pan-cancers is calculated. The correlation of each driver gene event was tested against a set of available clinical subtypes. Each correlation was tested using the fischer accurate test by comparing the occurrence of genetic events in patients of one clinical subtype versus another. For example, overexpression of loss-of-function mutations can be tested in smokers versus non-smokers, or in stage I versus stage II lung cancer. A total of 136 subtype pairs were tested for each event, and the characteristics defining the subtypes (some characteristics may be disease-specific) are listed below. A total of at least 4 patients (and at least 1 patient in each category) are required to perform the test. The correlation within cancer types, clinically relevant cancer subtypes and pan-cancers is calculated. Clinical subtype characterization name: Race/ethnicity Modified smoking status ERBB2 status Estrogen receptor status Progesterone receptor status TCGA PAM50 subtype BRAF mutant State Modified T-phase Modified N-phase Modified M phase Modified staging KRAS mutant status EGFR amplification status TCGA subtype Microsatellite status Human papillomavirus infection status The correlation of each event with clinical outcome was tested using a log rank test. Only the patient group with available clinical data is used for calculation, so the number of patients included in the test may be less than the number of patients measured for the driver gene event. At least 4 patients with abnormal events are required to perform the test. Survival time was presented in years, and individual survival/death events were clearly marked on the kaplan-meyer curve. The correlation within the cancer type and clinically relevant cancer subtypes but not pan-cancers is calculated. For each gene, the RNA expression and DNA copy number were tested for correlation among all patients of these data types measuring disease using Pearson's correlation. The correlation within the cancer type and clinically relevant cancer subtypes but not pan-cancers is calculated. For each event, each gene associated with the event was tested for differential expression in event positive versus event negative patients using the Student's T-Test. For events involving several genes, such as fusions, each gene was tested. Differential expression within the cancer type and clinically relevant cancer subtypes, but not pan-cancer, was calculated. Example 5: other fusion methods All RNASeq data for gene fusion analysis were obtained from the cancer genomics center (CGHub, current repository of TCGA genome data-https:// cghub. Ucsc. Edu /). All CCLE RNASEQ data for gene fusion analysis were obtained from the cancer genomics center (CGHub, current repository of CCLE NGS data-https:// cghub. The input into the fusion caller consists of RNASeq reads in FASTQ format, which require conversion of the BAM file provided by TCGA into one or two FASTQ files for single-ended or double-ended data (respectively). BAM files vary in provenance and processing, and many require special handling. For example, earlier BAM files provided by UNC are aligned using BWA (barres-wheatler aligner (Burrows-WHEELER ALIGNER)), while newer BAMs containing reads are aligned by MAPSPLICE. TCGA has recently updated the RNASeq pipeline to support alternative gene expression reports. (previous pipelines relied on RPKM measurements of gene expression, while the latter used RSEM.) these different RNASeq analysis pipelines were referenced by UNC as V1 and V2, respectively (https:// wiki. Nci. Nih. Gov/display/TCGA/RNASeq+version+2). When both formats are available for the same TCGA sample, we use the following BAM prioritization pipeline to select a single 'raw BAM': 1) Selecting V2 BAM relative to V1 BAM; and 2) when presenting multiple files of the same situation, selecting a BAM with a newer upload date. The custom SamToFastq translator described above is used to generate the FASTQ file from the TCGA BAM file. There are 2 cancer types (COADREAD and UCEC) available only in the form of single-ended RNASeq data. For single-ended BAM file conversion, the FASTQ file is generated using program BamTools (secure HyperText transfer protocol:// gitsub.com/pezmaster/bamtools). With the goal of supporting both single-ended and double-ended data, we process all single-ended data using TopHat and all double-ended data using deFuse. Broadly, our analysis pipeline consists of 5 main steps: Preprocessing raw data to obtain FASTQ files Running fusion invoker Filtering the breakpoint to the relevant gene region The breakpoint was annotated with Oncomine transcriptomes Summarizing and prioritizing novel fusions of possible interest And (3) executing the steps 1 and 2 on all samples in parallel based on the high-performance cloud computing cluster. The aggregated data is filtered and annotated as a post-processing step to enable exploratory analysis of the effects of various filtering and annotation processes. After completion of the filter criteria to minimize false positive fusions (step 5), the list of Oncomine prioritized fusions is validated with RNASeq exon expression data. TopHat. TopHat-Fusion from author hypertext transfer protocol: obtained in/(tophat. Cbcb. Umd. Edu). Software and reference data dependencies are configured as specified by the TopHat data: Software: TopHat:2.0.4, including TopHat-Fusion Post (04/09/2012 issues) Bowtie:0.12.8 (05/06/2012 release) Samtools:0.1.18 (09/02/2011 release) Blast (2.2.26) (03/03/2012 release) Blast+ (2.2.26) (10/21/11 release) Reference and comment: reference genome: UCSC hg19 (2012 5 month download) Gene model: refGene, ensGene (2012 5 month download) BLAST DB: nt, human, other (download 5 months 2012) Parameters: we run TopHat with essentially default parameters as specified in the TopHat data for single-ended and double-ended TCGA Illumina data. The following is a list of the parameters used. Table 25 The-mate-inner-dist and-mate-std-dev parameters do not have default values. The first parameter specifies the expected insertion size of the RNASeq double-ended read, while the second parameter specifies the expected standard deviation of the values. The TopHat authors recommend values of 0 and 80 for most datasets. Table 26 TopHat-Fusion was performed simultaneously on one sample, followed by TopHat-Fusion Post. We retained both the unfiltered tophate-Fusion output and the filtered tophate-Fusion Post output to enable deeper analysis. Defuse. Defuse from authors: hypertext transfer protocol: and// defuse. Sf. Net. Software and reference data dependencies are configured as specified by deFuse data: Software: deFuse:0.5.0 (04/07/2012 release) Bowtie:0.12.8 (05/06/2012 release) R2.15.0 (03/30/2012 release) Blat, faToTwoBit (05/01/2012) Reference and comment: reference genome: ensembl GRCh37.62 fa (download 5 months 2012) Gene model: ensembl gtf (download 5 months 2012) Genome data: UCSC EST fasta, EST alignment and repeat (download 5 months 2012) NCBI UniGene (2012 5 months download) Parameters: we run deFuse with default parameters as specified in deFuse program data. Table 27 At the same time deFuse is performed on one sample. We keep both filtered and unfiltered results of deFuse outputs to enable deeper analysis. We integrate the 'layer I' data, the output of the potential_fusion. Txt file from TopHat-Fusion Post and the output of the results. Classification. Tsv file from deFuse. deFuse reports many more potential calls at this level than TopHat, and thus more false positive predictions can also be reported. The layer I data is selected to strive for a balance between utilizing built-in filtering of the calling program and allowing for sufficient results to be spread out to identify possible real fusions with slightly weaker evidence. Since each caller provides a different level of annotation and supporting evidence for the fusion call, the predicted break points of the fusion from both callers are extracted and integrated into a common format for filtering and annotation. The integration step consists of the following steps: the reported breakpoint is converted to a genomic coordinate system based breakpoint and combined into a common file format. The predicted fusion from the 'layer I' output of the calling program was filtered, leaving only those calls in which each breakpoint was in the 5' utr or CDS region of the RefSeq transcript (refGene was obtained from UCSC approximately 18 months 7 in 2012). This is done to filter fusion calls, for example, in which the 3'UTR of one gene is predicted to fuse with the 3' UTR of another gene, for those predicted to contain functional gene regions. Although at the genomic DNA level, the breakpoint may occur in introns, in the RNASeq data, the breakpoint will be observed at the nearest exon-intron boundary. Thus, the breakpoint predicted to occur in the intron sequence is also excluded. After excluding fusions outside the 5' utr or CDS region of the RefSeq transcript, the annotation from the RefSeq transcript was transferred to the remaining breakpoint with some prediction relative to the multiple Entrez ID annotations. For each pair of breakpoint, only one transcript is retained per Entrez ID. In the case of multiple transcripts, the transcript with the shortest transcript accession number is selected; further contact is broken by sorting the accession numbers alphanumerically and retaining the first accession number. This procedure ensures consistency in annotated breakpoint at the same location. However, predicted breakpoint at different locations of the same gene match can still produce multiple transcripts representing a pair of genes, which is a possible evidence for alternative transcripts. The basic annotations from the caller itself are discarded because they are the default annotation sources based on each corresponding caller. However, some of the output fields of both TopHat and deFuse are reserved to help prioritize the predicted fusion. In addition, certain annotation properties that are not explicitly reported by the caller are inferred from other caller properties. Support and cross-read counts are obtained from each caller and summarized in both the read span and read span support columns. The latter column is the sum of reads across the fusion and reads supporting the fusion (not confused with the count of TopHat for a 'crossing pair where one end crosses the fusion', which is sometimes referred to as a 'crossing and supporting read'). The breakpoint sequence reported by the calling procedure was trimmed to include 50 bases on each side of the fusion and incorporated into the column of the breakpoint sequence. Fusion breakpoint is depicted by '|'. It should be noted that this is a sequence of breakpoint as inferred by the calling procedure, and is not simply obtained from the reference genome. Because the deduced sequence may reflect the actual sequence observed by crossing reads, this sequence may represent the complement of the reference genomic sequence. Since neither of the invokers provides a definitive '5' or '3' tag, we infer the relative 5'-3' orientation of the fusion partner by combining the invoker parameters with the gene chain annotation. For deFuse, the orientation of each match was deduced based on the following combination of gene strand and deFuse output characteristics 'genomic_strand': Table 28 TopHat reports different metrics, i.e., the relative orientation of reads mapped to gene matches, and therefore different rule sets are required to infer the 5'-3' order of gene pairs: Table 29 If inferred 5 'and 3' matches exist for a given gene fusion call, the valid targeting field is labeled 'Y'. REPEATMASKER each predicted breakpoint location is also annotated with REPEATMASKER features in the vicinity of the breakpoint. This was done to identify breakpoint in highly repetitive genomic regions, where alignment errors are likely to affect the prediction of chimeric transcripts. Specifically, the 25bp sequences upstream or downstream of the 5 'and 3' match breakpoint were chosen as the `breakpoint flanking sequences` respectively. These flanking sequences intersect with respect to REPEATMASKER element groups (hypertext transfer protocol:// www.repeatmasker.org /) downloaded from the UCSC table browser at month 8, 2012. We report the names of the elements, the lengths of the elements and the amounts of the elements in each breakpoint overlapping the 26 base breakpoint flanking regions. Currently, REPEATMASKER elements are not filtered for specific element types (LINES, SINES, simple repeat, etc.). For each fusion prediction, we set REPEATMASKER overlap fields to equal the number of bases that the breakpoint flanking sequence overlaps with the REPEATMASKER element, and consider the overlap of 12 or more bases as significant. The frequency of significantly overlapping fusion calls was used for Oncomine prioritization described below, so that gene fusions with lower overlapping frequencies were seen as higher quality. Fusion uses RNASeq exon expression data observations to provide secondary evidence of a true positive fusion event by looking for exon expression imbalance before and after breakpoint call. In particular, if expression of the 3 'partner is affected by the promoter region of the 5' partner, exon expression should be enhanced after the predicted breakpoint. This effect is especially visible when looking at fused versus unfused patient samples. TCGA exon expression data downloaded from the Bode GDAC Firehose position. The RPKM RNASEQ values for each patient are listed in the form of Gene Annotation Format (GAF) signatures corresponding to complexes of UCSC exons from several different gene definitions, including RefSeq. After downloading data for 21 diseases, we found 4 different sets of GAF features to annotate RPKM expression. Finally, the availability of patient expression data varies by disease in the V1 and V2 RNASeq analysis pipeline described above. To address these challenges, we first mapped the UCSC RefSeq exons to available GAF features, and calculated the percentage of overlap between each RefSeq exon and GAF feature. This step is critical because all CBI treated fusion breakpoint points map to UCSC Refgene definitions downloaded at 7/18/2012 and these breakpoint points must in turn map to GAF features. 80.8% of 396,298 RefSeq exons map perfectly to GAF features in the curve shown below. We selected and reported the RefSeq exon and GAF feature pair that produced the greatest overlap. The value called rg_pct provides a measure of the quality of the mapping of a given RefSeq exon to a GAF feature based on the following formula: rg_pct=overlap/length refsq overlap/length GAF Features (e.g. a character) The mapping with an rg_pct value of 1 is perfectly overlapping, whereas a value of less than 1 indicates that RefSeq exons or GAF features are not mapped to exactly the same genomic region, and RPKM values may be suspect. We selected RNASeq V2 data for all diseases except STAD (due to unavailability of V2 data). Exon expression data for cell line samples were generated from CCLE BAM file obtained from CGHub. The method employed is similar to step 18, as described in the 'TCGA mRNA-seq pipeline of UNC data' method available herein: secure hypertext transfer protocol: v/webshare. Bionf. UNC. Edu/public/mRNAseq _tcga/unc_ mRNAseq _summation. Pdf. The difference between the UNC method and our method is that the RefSeq exon BED is used in our method instead of the complex exon BED used by TCGA. Exon expression imbalance calculation the evidence of potential 5 'promoter-induced imbalance in 3' partner expression in each sample was systematically analyzed. First, the expression level of each gene was converted to a logarithmic scale, and then the z-score was normalized in the sample group for each disease. This normalization was performed at the exon level to account for broad population trends, such as 3' bias or poor RefSeq exon/GAF feature matching (see below). The crude RPKM expression values (top) for PLXNB and COL7A1 in serous ovarian cancer patients were compared to the z-score normalized values (see figures 8A-D). The broad population dip in PLXNB expression at exons 12, 17 and 23 was smoothed in the normalized data. Samples predicted to have fusions between these genes are highlighted in red; wild type patients are shown in blue. Red diamonds indicate predicted breakpoint exons for calling programs. Prior to normalization, samples that were considered wild-type of the fusion under consideration but were predicted to have other fusions involving one of the gene matches were removed from the wild-type population so as not to contaminate the z-score calculation. After normalization, each sample was assigned a p-value (H 0：μA≤μS) calculated via the single-sided schwann t-test based on the assumption that the post-breakpoint normalized expression value (population a) of the sample had a higher average value than the pre-breakpoint value. The predicted breakpoint of the calling program was used to isolate the expressed population of samples identified by either fusion calling program. The P-value for each wild-type sample was also calculated to facilitate analysis of the P-value for fusion positive samples in the context of the entire population. This allows us to discard fusions involving genes that exhibit a broad population of exon imbalance trends that are not fusion-induced. Any samples whose p-value was not rated within the forefront of the p-value of the wild-type samples were discarded. The breakpoint that maximizes the difference between the expression levels before and after the breakpoint was used for wild-type sample p-value calculation. Fusion overview fusion within the disease is outlined based on the appearance of unique gene pairs and on the appearance of individual genes (possibly together with multiple matches). For the unique fusion pair (unique to the Entrez ID pair), the number of samples within the disease with at least one fusion prediction according to any calling procedure is the fused sample count. Since multiple breakpoint of the same gene pair can be reported in one sample and across multiple samples, the number of unique fusion pairs within each disease is far less than the total number of fusion calls. To filter and prioritize fusions at the gene-pair level, rather than the fusion call level, several fusion caller characteristics are outlined. The following table shows the properties outlined for a given fusion partner pair spanning an individual prediction: Table 30 Characteristics of Overview method DEFUSE turn over Total fusion call% = 'Y' DEFUSE effective orientation Total fusion call% = 'Y' DEFUSE multiple mapping number Total fusion call% > 0 topHAT effective orientation Total fusion call% = 'Y' 3P/5P_REPEATMASKER overlap Total fusion call% > 12 If genes on the genome are separated by < 1Mb, then adjacent markers are set for the fusions, and defuse inverted markers are set in the predictions of less than or equal to 75% of the individual fusions of these fusion partners. Fused sample counts are also summarized at each disease type and across the gene level (unique according to Entrez gene ID) within the disease (pan-cancer). This summary approach is independent of the orientation of the intra-fusion inference. In addition, only the fused sample counts of Oncomine-priority fusions were calculated (as described below). The individual unique fusion pair cross-references the Mitelman database of genomic aberrations (HyperText transfer protocol:// cgap. Nci. Nih. Gov/Chromosomes/Mitelman). Matching is based on the name of the gene rather than the type of disease. Thus, gene fusions in a disease reported in Mitelman may have been present in different disease types in the TCGA dataset. The gene fusions outlined at the gene level are based on the gene name cross-reference Mitelman database. Thus, genes with different histology or completely different aberration types (e.g., larger chromosome-level deletions than fusions) as reported in Mitelman have more potential than the predicted unique fusion pair. Assuming that all fusions invoked in TCGA normal samples are false positives, we propose the following questions: 1) Is fusion invocation in tumor samples identified in normal samples? 2) Is the Oncomine prioritized fusion identified in tumor samples also identified in normal samples? Answer to the first question provides a baseline meaning of the technical false positive rate in tumor gene fusion calls. The second problem is a sanity check on how well Oncomine priority fusion filters overcome this problem. 344 double-ended normal samples within 10 diseases were downloaded and processed using the same deFuse pipeline described above. A total of 56,579 total fusion calls consisting of 6,024 unique fusions were observed. These normal sample fusions were invoked for generating a blacklist and these false positives were removed from Oncomine priority gene fusions. Blacklist of parallel homologous fusion partner blacklists of fusions between parallel homologous gene family members are assembled using two strategies: 1) Manually detecting high frequency fusion partner gene names, and 2) comparing the first 3 characters of all priority fusion partner gene names. In the latter strategy, the fusion partner was verified to be 'paralogous' using HomoloGene, ensembl, SIMAP and GENEDECKS V3, and then included in the final blacklist. The following table shows the first 10 most commonly observed gene fusion calls between parallel cognate fusion partners. The entire table consisted of more than 400 unique paralogous gene fusions and was used to remove these false positives from our Oncomine priority gene fusion. Table 31 Fusion prioritization-Oncomine priority flow the Oncomine priority flow outlined below is designed by: the forefront in the level I fusion prediction is iteratively explored and suspected false positive fusions are systematically eliminated while retaining previously discovered 'true positive' (Mitelman) fusions. This procedure is intended to highlight fusions that meet certain features expected for 'true positive' fusions and conversely lack the features observed in many 'false positive' fusions. The fusion is Oncomine priority fusion when: Table 32 Example 6: oncomine NGS mutation method The goal of data integration is to form the most complete NGS mutation dataset currently available. We consider the following sources: Raw data sources COSIC cell line project TCGA data from Bode GDAC Mutation Packager (stddata build) TCGA data from DCC 2 stage Kenpadia company mutation call based on TCGA data Publications containing NGS mutation data COSIC cell line project Cancer genome projects have characterized exomes for more than 1000 cancer cell lines for mutations. The database provides mutation data for quality filtering in flat file format. The cell line data underwent the same Oncomine management and annotation methods used for the clinical mutation data. Cell line names were censored against Oncomine on a body basis and cancer types were normalized to be comparable to clinical mutation data. Datasets were obtained from the cell line Project (Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute CELL LINES Project) website of the sambac institute, vitamin Kang Xintuo when it was presented at month 11 in 2013: hypertext transfer protocol: /(cancer.sanger.ac. uk/cancergenome/projects/cell_lines/obtained. Bow GDAC mutation_Packager Bow from the third quarter of 2011 has been working on collecting and integrating Mutation data from multiple sources. https：//docs.google.com/document/d/18X1Wv-a9xLBOflNikOa9rCXOyiravMM8_-PVJxAQPPo/edit The above documents detail the provenance of MAF files incorporated into the standard data run of the station Packager by bordetella. Bordetention has incorporated a number of MAF files that are maintained outside the central TCGA DCC system, typically by members of the analysis team itself. We have performed a deep comparison between all MAF files available to us. We believe that bordetention has the most complete mutation data available. For this version, we integrate the data from 2013_08_09 stddata build. TCGA DCC 2 level this is the controlled access mutation data available from DCC. The TCGA has pages on its wiki (wiki) that provide additional details about available MAF files: https：//wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/TCGA/TCGA+MAF+Files For this version we consider all MAF files available by 2013, 9, 15. We felt that PRAD mutant calls available from TCGA were of low quality and produced false positive 'gain of function' predictions. Thus, all calls to this disease originate from the kenpandisia company's self-mutating call pipeline. Kenpodia company mutational calls are made to conform to the MAF file format for integration. For more details, please see the appendix: kenpodia company NGS DNASEQ mutant call (Compendia NGSDNASeq Mutation Calling). 170 prostate cancer patients are included in this version. The TCGA and non-TCGA NGS datasets were obtained by Oncomine management teams directly from their original sources (principally peer-reviewed cancer publications and publicly accessible databases). The criteria required to arrive at mutation re-annotation and classification of the mutation data commonly available in the supplemental material is part of the overall NGS mutation processing pipeline. Cancer types appropriate Oncomine cancer types are assigned based on the best available clinical metadata present in the publications using Oncomine cancer type ontology management. Since all published experiments require full genome ('NGS') coverage, the empty genome of each dataset is assumed to include all human RefSeq genes. The non-TCGA data is processed in exactly the same way as TCGA MAF file data for the rest of the mutation analysis pipeline. We performed some simple clean-up operations to remove duplicate mutation records present in the source data. We also perform several file-column name remaps because many sources do not comply with the MAF file standard. Duplicate mutations were removed from various tumor/normal aliquot pairs from the same patient samples. The data obtained from TCGA and non-TCGA sources contained mutations generated from datasets processed and annotated through several years of process by different genomic sequencing centers or authors. This results in mutant calls annotated with different genetic models and with different variant classification conventions. Since the method of defining mutations by kenpan disco relies on accurate variant annotation, we re-annotate mutations with respect to a single transcript set and consistent variant classification rules. The standard annotation pipeline ensures that mutations across disease types are consistently evaluated and subject to common interpretation during the naming of potential oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes. Important annotations, such as HGVS style mutation nomenclature (e.g., V600E), that are not consistently available from the original source are also provided. Mutations obtained from the original source were processed by kenpan diea company according to the following general procedure (details are provided below). We first re-annotated each mutation using the Oncomine transcriptome of kenpan diea company. Mutations that successfully comment accept comments from kenpandisia, while the remainder retains comments obtained from the original source. The annotation comprises: Variant classification Variant position Variant changes Several filtering steps are performed to remove redundant annotations in multiple transcripts and mutations outside the relevant gene regions. In certain diseases (e.g., endometrial cancer), several highly mutated samples may predominate over the entire mutation count. We also observed the 'hypermutated gene' samples in lung adenocarcinoma, gastric carcinoma, melanoma, and colorectal carcinoma. Based on cut-off values determined by analysis of the hypermutated gene outliers in several cancer types, we decided to treat < 5,000 non-silent exon mutations as thresholds for inclusion of the samples in our reproducible analysis. We therefore excluded from our downstream analysis pipeline many of the hypermutated gene samples in this dataset. In the mutation annotation step, we attempted to annotate the mutations obtained from the original source against the standard transcriptome compiled by kenpandisco corporation. This group of transcripts included RefGene transcripts from hg18 and hg19 genomic constructs obtained from UCSC at month 2 and 19 of 2012. Each mutation is individually mapped against an contig in the Oncomine transcript set within the specified genome construction. SNP mutations map directly to their starting positions, while relevant positions are selected for mapping for small Insert (INS) and Deletion (DEL) mutations. For insertion, the relevant position is the base at which the insertion occurred. Depending on the direction of the transcript, this may be the start or stop coordinates of the mutation, depending on whether the gene is on the positive strand or on the negative strand, respectively. For deletions, the relevant position is the base that is deleted when the transcript is on the positive strand or the last base that is deleted when the transcript is on the negative strand. This regulation ensures that the mutation position is defined as the first base affected by an insertion/deletion relative to the direction of translation of the transcript (i.e., 5'. Fwdarw.3'). For mutations that mapped successfully to transcripts, kenpan disco company mutation notes were inferred with respect to the transcripts. For mutations that fail to map, annotations from the original data source are retained, and variant positions for hotspot calculation are constructed based on genomic coordinates (more details are below). Since only a standard set of 23 chromosomes is included in our transcriptome, mutations located on mitochondria or other non-standard contigs are not mapped. The following is a description of criteria for annotating mutations mapped to Oncomine transcript sets. For each mutation that successfully mapped to a transcript, a combination of mutation and annotation properties was used to infer the variant classification. Our approach identified six major classes of mutant variants, all located within transcripts. The classification of mutated variants outside the gene region (e.g. between genes) is currently not considered (see filtering section below). The following are criteria for inferring variant classifications: Table 33 This list of variant classifications is a subset of the allowed variant classifications specified by the TCGA for the MAF file format. https：//wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/TCGA/Mutation+Annotation+Format+％28MAF％29+Specification This subset covers the relevant mutation class for reproducible analysis and identification of potentially acquired or nonfunctional genes and is therefore sufficient for mapping to the vast majority of mutations in the Oncomine transcript set. The following table describes the possible variant classifications assigned to the comparison original author classification (assuming that the mutations mapped to the same transcripts as used to define the classification) and the relative abundance of the mutation types in the source dataset: Watch 34 One of the initial objectives of current assays is to identify genes with hot spot mutations, a class of mutations observed at the same location in multiple tumor samples. In order to effectively identify hot spots reproducing and defining each mutation, we have to construct mutation point identifiers covering the mutation position, the affected amino acid or base identity and the variant classification. We aggregate mutations that occur at the same position independent of the particular base change they produce. Thus, we use only reference bases or amino acids to define variant positions. This ensures that mutations that affect the same codon or genomic position will be counted for possible hot spots, even if the resulting substitution alleles are different. For example, for a given gene, the missense mutations V600E, V F and V600G will both have the variant position of V600, and will thus be clustered together upon identification of the hotspot mutation. Thus, our variant positions are defined as follows: variant position = mutation point { base|codon } + reference { base|aa + [ variant Classification ] If the mutation is in the coding region, the number of codons at the relevant base and the corresponding amino acid are used to identify the point of mutation, e.g. a p.L116_in-frame deletion. If the mutation is in a non-coding region (e.g., UTR), then the position and identity of the reference nucleotide at the relevant base is used to identify the point of the mutation, e.g., C110C. For splice site mutations outside the coding region, variant positions are specified relative to the splice boundary. The relative positions were identified using + {1|2} or- {1|2} (splice sites were mutated to those within 2 bases of the splice site). Like insertions and deletions, a suffix of '_splice site' is added to the splice site mutation. For insertion and deletion mutations, suffixes indicating intra-frame ('_in-frame insertion' or '_in-frame deletion') or frame shift ('_frame shift insertion' or '_frame shift deletion') are added to variant positions. In summary, the following are examples of different possible variant position formats: table 35 For mutations that do not map to the Oncomine transcript set and therefore do not have transcript-based positions, the genomic position (starting position) and the reference nucleotide (reference allele) are used as variant positions independent of coding region or splice site proximity. The variant classifications provided by the raw data are then added as suffixes. For example, a SNP missense mutation will have a variant position, such as a 'chr19_c.c22952756_missense mutation', and a splice site SNP will have a variant position of 'chrl _c.a155025094_splice site'. Variant changes of these mutations (see below) are undefined. Although the suffix of a variant position usually implicitly binds to the variant classification, both the variant position and the variant classification are explicitly used to aggregate mutations when calculating hotspots. Thus, mutations that may produce the same variant position but have different variant classifications (e.g., missense and nonsense SNPs) are calculated separately. Variant changes provide HGVS-like information about the mutated alternative allele changes. For SNP mutations in the coding region, the variant changes are described as complete HGVS protein-level sequence variants, indicating the substitution of amino acids. For SNPs outside the coding region, alternative allele nucleotide bases are provided. For both insertion and deletion variant types, variant positions (see above) are used as variant changes. In these cases, the consequences of the changes at the amino acid level are not inferred. Thus, the variant changes of an insertion/deletion do not absolutely follow HGVS specifications. The following are illustrative examples of mutational annotated variant changes originating from kenpandisia: Table 36 Mutation Variant classification Variant position Variant changes SNP in CDS, E > K, residue 137 Missense mutation p.E137 p.E137K SNP is two bp apart from the splice site in intron C > 2 Splice sites C.4913-1_splice site c.4913-1 Inserted in CDS at residue Gly 264 Frame shift insertion P.G264_frame shift insertion P.G264_frame shift insertion Deletion of one base in UTR 3′UTR C. 1007 a_frame shift deletion C. 1007 a_frame shift deletion For mutations that do not map to the Oncomine transcript set, variant classifications from the original data source were retained. To avoid searching multiple transcripts, and thus multiple annotations of a single mutation within a gene, we keep only one transcript per mutation per gene (unique Entrez ID). If a mutation maps to several transcripts of one gene, then only one transcript is selected. However, if the mutation maps to several genes, then only one transcript is selected for each gene. Thus, one mutation can accept two different annotations, but only if it comes from transcripts with different Entrez IDs. We selected mutated representative transcripts based on the following priority scheme: Transcripts with the most influential variant classifications: Higher impact in coding: missense, nonsense, nonsensical, termination, frame shift Lower impact in coding: in frame silencing Outside the coding region: splice sites, 3 'or 5' UTRs, non-coding exons Outside the exon: introns If a priority-based association exists, then the transcript with the shortest (by length) RefSeq transcript accession number is selected, followed by the alphanumeric smallest transcript accession number in the event of a further association. For example, among transcripts NM_003319, NM_133378 and NM_00125685 of the TTN gene, we will choose NM_003319 as representative transcript. These steps allow us to repeatedly select identical transcripts for the same type of mutation at one position. One result of selecting the most influential transcripts is that multiple transcripts can be used for mutation at multiple positions in a single gene. However, the benefit of this procedure is that any mutation of the same variant class at the same location is always assigned to the same transcript and will therefore be in the same frame of reference when calculating the rendition for hotspot identification. All mutations were further filtered by variant type and class. To avoid including less relevant mutations into the gene function analysis, we filtered out mutations that did not resolve to the gene region, either because they were significantly far outside the transcript, or because they were in a position that was not relevant to the RefSeq gene. These mutations are evident by their lack of gene identifier (Entrez id=0 or blank) or membership in the following variant classes: introns, 5' flanking sequences, IGR and miRNA. We also filtered out mutations with DNP, TNP, ONP, complex substitutions and Indel variant types, as their annotation was not supported by our pipeline. Since some data sources include a wide range of introns and intergenic mutations, this filtering step significantly reduces the size of the data set, as many NGS data sets do not employ these filtering pre-publications. The next step in our analysis pipeline identifies recurrent mutations in multiple samples based on their variant positions and classifies them into hot spots, deleterious or other variant categories. For this step and subsequent frequency calculations, mutations for each disease type are treated independently. Only mutations classified by the same variant are operated together, so that missense mutations and silent mutations at the same position are counted, respectively, for example. To identify driver events, each mutation of a given Entrez Gene ID is classified as 'deleterious' or 'hot spot' depending on the following criteria: A mutation is considered to be 'reproducible' if it is observed in the same variant position in 3 or more tumor samples. If a mutation is one that belongs to the 'hot spot' variant class: Reproduced and Annotated with one of the following variant classifications: in-frame insertion/deletion Without termination Missense Non-coding exons If a mutation is one that belongs to the 'deleterious' class: Non-reproducing and Annotated with one of the following variant classifications: Frame shift insertion/deletion Nonsense device If a mutation does not meet the criteria described above, the mutation is considered to be in the 'other' variant class. Oncomine mutation classifications and variant classifications can be used to outline the relative frequencies of the various mutations at the genetic level. Individual genes are categorized into predicted functional categories, namely 'acquire function', 'reproduce others' and 'lose function', to reflect their relative enrichment in potentially activating or deleterious mutations. Details of the procedure for classifying are provided below. The mutation frequency of each gene is calculated relative to the given variant classifications and variant categories in all samples within a disease type. The overall mutation frequency of genes within the disease is calculated by combining the mutations of all variant classifications. The overall mutation frequency of a gene is obtained by dividing the total number of samples (sample counts of mutations) having at least one mutation of any variant class in the gene by the total number of samples (sample counts) in a given cancer type. The hot spot frequency of a gene is obtained by dividing the total number of samples having at least one mutation belonging to the 'hot spot' Oncomine mutation class by the sample count of mutations (the total number of samples having at least one mutation of a given gene). For example, if a sample has both a hot spot missense and a hot spot in-frame miss, it will only count once. To obtain the hot missense frequency of a gene, the number of samples containing at least one missense mutation with the Oncomine mutation class of 'hot spot' is divided by the sample count of mutations (the number of samples with at least one mutation of any type in this gene). Samples with more than one mutation of the type described above were counted only once. To obtain the detrimental frequency of a gene, the number of samples containing at least one mutation having the Oncomine mutation class of 'detrimental' is divided by the number of samples with mutations (the number of samples with at least one mutation of a given gene). Samples with more than one mutation of the type described above were counted only once. To obtain other frequencies of genes, the total number of samples with at least one mutation having the 'other' Oncomine mutation class is divided by the sample count of mutations (the total number of samples with at least one mutation of a given gene). For example, if the sample contains both splice sites and UTR mutations, it will only count once. Hot spots, other, and detrimental frequencies should not be expected to amount to 100% because the sample may have counted in more than one of these categories. The hot spot and deleterious p-value for each gene within the disease were calculated by two independent methods. To assess whether one gene is significantly enriched for deleterious mutations compared to other genes, we performed a fischer-tropsch accurate test in view of the background mutation rate using the following table: table 37 Harmful effects Others Related genes A B All other genes C D Wherein A, B, C and D are mutation counts across the disease. Nonsense mutations, frameshift insertions and frameshift deletions are classified as deleterious mutations, whereas mutations of any other type (UTR, silent, missense, etc., but not intergenic) are used as other counts. The Q value within each disease was calculated by counting the number (N) of genes with deleterious mutations and calculating the grade of each correlation. The Q value given for p is q=p×n/rank. To calculate the p-value specific to a gene, the significance of the most reproduced hot spot on the gene was assessed. Given the assumption that each sequence position is likely to mutate equally, each gene can be tested, and whether it is most reproducible significantly greater than would be expected using the polynomial test. This is an accurate check of the sampling algorithm that has been implemented in the previous version. One of the advantages of this test is that the p-value accuracy is raised to 1E-16, so no bottoming occurs. To obtain hot spot mutations, we filtered the mutations to remove any that did not affect the coding sequence (i.e., by removing silencing, UTR, stop codon, and splice site mutations), and then removed the mutation data of genes that we may not annotate with RefSeq transcript identifiers. We next counted the mutations observed for each transcript in each disease. We calculate the amino acid sequence length by dividing the CDS length by three and subtracting 1. The exact calculation of the p-value is formulated as follows. Given the amino acid sequence of length x, the number of observed hot spot mutations n, what is the probability that r or more mutations are accidentally observed at the point where the most reproducible is. For each gene, the p-value was calculated by the following formula: Where y (X) is the mutation count at the most reproducible hot spot, and y 1,...,yX represents the mutation count at x at each point 1. When n and x are large, the above formula can be extremely slow, using an approximation with the boundary of Bonferroni-Ma Luosi (Bonferroni-Mallows, BM): wherein y i is a poisson random variable (Poisson random variable) having an average n/x, an Wherein Y is parapozzolan (truncated Poisson). P (w=n) is estimated by the achyranthes expansion (Edgeworth Expansion). The upper and lower bound of p-value, ponfroney-Maros, are: If the approximation falls outside the BM limits, then either a lower or an upper limit is used. It rarely occurs in our data and it occurs mainly for smaller p values (p < 1 e-16) or larger p values (p is approximately equal to 1). The Q value was calculated using the Benjamini-Huo Hebei lattice method (Benjamini-Hochbergmethod), which is q=p×n/scale, where N is the number of transcripts and the scale is the scale for each p value. The reproduced silent mutation-silent hotspot appears to be an indication of sequencing errors, occurring in regions of low sequence quality and acting as a 'canary in coal mine' for false positive missense mutation peaks in adjacent nucleotides. Based on examination of genes with silent hot spots and evaluation of adjacent silent peaks, we believe that these genes are subject to systematic sequencing errors, and that hot spot mutations in these genes should not contribute to gene classification. Oncomine rules for classification of genes once mutations have been classified, individual genes are named as one of three classes: 'get function', 'lose function' and 'others reproduced'. Classification is based on a combination of the relative frequencies and significance of mutations observed in the genes. The significance of each gene mutation was assessed by p-value. Reproduced silent mutations the 'gain-of-function' genes will have a relatively high frequency of hot missense mutations and a low frequency of deleterious mutations, whereas the 'loss-of-function' genes will contain a greater portion of deleterious mutations. 'other reproductions' tend to contain reproductions of insertion/deletion mutations, some of which (e.g., reproductions of 1 base frameshift insertion deletions) exhibit signs of potential false positive calls that may be caused by local alignment errors. In general, we are more confident about the functional importance of genes classified as acquired/nonfunctional. To summarize mutations across disease, we performed the same calculations as we performed for the intra-disease analysis, but without stratification of mutation records according to disease. All mutation records were aggregated and frequency, variant class and gene class were calculated in this general cancer case. For the general disease overview, genes in all cancer types (unique according to Entrez ID) are summarized and each disease is in a row. However, an overview of genes within the disease but in the case of a generalized cancer is also provided. This means, for example, totaling samples within the disease with hot spot mutations, but only for mutations that are considered hot spots in the case of a pan-cancer. The cancer type of < 20 samples was included in the pan-cancer analysis, although it was not amenable to the intra-disease analysis due to low sample counts. Cell line mutation data underwent the same Oncomine management and annotation methods described above, except for mutation and gene classification. Instead, mutations from cell lines were annotated with Oncomine mutation categories and gene categories whenever mutations in the cell lines were also observed in clinical samples. This annotation was performed only for mutations with hot spots or deleterious or other Oncomine mutation categories. If no mutation is observed in the tumor, it will receive a 'no observed in tumor' classification of mutations. Mutations from cell lines and tumor samples are considered equivalents if they belong to the same gene and have the same variant position and variant classification. Cell line names were censored on a body with respect to the interior Oncomine and cell line cancer types were normalized to be comparable to clinical mutation data. Several cell lines of identity or cancer type that may not be independently verified in the whole database or publication are removed from our analysis. Mutation annotation from clinical data was performed in general cancer and intra-disease situations. Kenladiya company NGS DNASEQ mutant call We queried CGHub of TCGA to identify patients with a single tumor-normal BAM pair. We do so to remove the possibility of differences in mutant call due to different tumor-normal pairs. We identify the reference genome construct for aligning reads in the BAM file by parsing the SAM header. We locate, download and index all reference genome constructs as required for input into the mutation invocation package. We used the following somatic mutation call packages for this analysis: MuTect (1.0.27783), bode Institute (Broad Institute), cancer genome analysis group (Cancer Genome Analysis Group, CGA) (Ji Buer Siki (Cibulskis), 2013) SomaticIndelDetector (1.6-13-g 91f02 df), bode institute, genome analysis toolkit (Genome Analysis Toolkit, GATK) MuTect. MuTect performs an initial pretreatment to remove 'reads with too many mismatches or very low mass fraction' (MuTect data). Next, for candidate mutations, two log difference (LOD) scores were calculated describing the likelihood of mutation (LOD T) present in the tumor sample and non-mutation (LOD N) in the normal sample: MuTect it is expected that somatic mutations occur at Mb at a rate of about 1 and LOD T > = 6.3 is required. MuTect requires that the mutation is not in dbSNP and has LOD N > = 2.3, since non-dbsnps are expected to occur at a rate of 100 per Mb. The two cut-off values are chosen to ensure that the false positive rate is less than half the expected somatic mutation rate. Finally, other post-processing steps are performed, including testing for alternate alleles observed in both read directions. For the mutation to be considered MuTect requires at least 14 tumor reads and 8 normal reads. SomaticIndelDetector (SID) for a given mutation site, the SID considers candidate indels using a count-based threshold and indel coincidence voting scheme. The indel with the largest number of supporting reads or votes is selected as the putative indel call. This call is reported if there are: Adequate coverage (default: normal > =4 reads, tumor > =6 reads), The majority of reads at the site support putative calls (default: > = 30%) This part is sufficiently large compared to those supporting any site of indels (default: > =70%) Indel calls in tumor samples were annotated as 'germline' if even weaker evidence of the same Indel was present in normal samples; otherwise, it is labeled 'somatic cell'. Calls observed only in normal samples were ignored. SID takes BAM files as putative calls for input and output VCF and BED formatting. The caller outputs all candidate mutation calls, including germline mutations and other calls with low statistical confidence. We filtered the mutation calling program output for somatic mutations only, mutations labeled 'KEEP' (KEEP) by MuTect, and mutations that occur within the CDS of RefSeq gene. The following table details the specific filters applied to MuTect and SomaticIndelDetector outputs: table 38 Reference to the literature Sensitivity detection of somatic point mutations in Ji Buer s k. (Cibulskis, k.) (SENSITIVE DETECTION OF SOMATIC POINT MUTATIONS IN IMPURE AND HETEROGENEOUS CANCER SAMPLES) in human impure and heterogeneous cancer samples, (Nat Biotechnology) (2013). Doi:10.1038/nbt.2514 MuTect: hypertext transfer protocol: ,// www.broadinstitute.org/cancer/cga/mutect SID: hypertext transfer protocol: 'gas kfordes. Broadensitute. Org/dis-cussion/35/somatic-index-detection Table 16: TABLE 2 pharmaceutically acceptable State of Gene/fusion Table 17: TABLE 3 pharmaceutical State of Gene/fusion Table 19: gene fusions Example 7 identification of TP53 State Advances in both molecular diagnostics and understanding cancer biology to more effectively stratify patients would improve outcome and speed up approval of effective cancer drugs would be expected to raise the threshold of clinical trial paradigms. The mutant status of TP53 has been identified as a predictive biomarker for therapeutic response and prognosis. For example, TP53 wild-type (WT) patients have been shown to exhibit significantly prolonged progression free survival after therapy including adjuvant 5-fluorouracil and cetuximab combination therapy compared to patients containing TP53 mutations. TP53 mutation annotations were obtained from ONCOMINE TM NGS mutation browser (Compendia Biosciences, MI) of kenpandi bioscience, michigan, of a total of 776 patients assessed for TP53 mutation status, 259 patients contained at least one mutation in TP53 and were annotated as TP53 mutants, while 519 patients lacked detected TP53 mutations and were annotated as TP53 wild-type and TP53 mutant annotations were then mapped at the patient level to corresponding microarray samples from the TCGA breast cancer dataset. Five ONCOMINE TM cancer types contained enough TP53 mutation status data to complete the analysis. Among these, significantly elevated marker expression was found in TP53 WT and trends were found in lymphoma patients (p=0.068; n=65wt, 16 mutations) compared to clinical samples of TP53 mutations from cancer patients (p < 0.001; n=189 WT,37 mutants), lung cancer (p=0.0003; n=23 WT,18 mutations), liver cancer (p=0.0069; n=74 WT,11 mutations) and ovarian cancer (p=0.05; n=22 WT,15 mutations). Table 40 contains TP53 WT TCGA breast cancer markers. Expression markers of clinical origin effectively distinguish TP53 WT from mutant tumor samples. Table 40 All numbers expressing quantities of ingredients, properties (such as molecular weight), reaction conditions, and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term 'about' unless otherwise indicated. Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques. Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value, however, inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. The use of the terms 'a' and 'an' and 'the' and similar referents in the context of describing the invention (especially in the context of the following claims) are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range. Unless otherwise indicated herein, each individual value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (e.g., 'such as') provided herein, is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention. The grouping of alternative elements or embodiments of the invention disclosed herein should not be construed as limiting. Each group member may be referred to and claimed individually or in any combination with other members of the group or other elements found herein. It is contemplated that one or more members of a group may be included in or deleted by the group for convenience and/or patentability reasons. When any such inclusion or deletion occurs, the specification is considered to contain the groups as modified, and thus satisfies the written description of all Markush (Markush) groups used in the appended claims. Certain embodiments of the invention are described herein, including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those described embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate, and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly, this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Furthermore, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. In addition, reference has been made throughout this specification to numerous patents and printed publications. Each of the references and printed publications cited above are individually incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. It is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention disclosed herein are illustrative of the principles of the present invention. Other modifications that may be employed are within the scope of the invention. Thus, by way of example, and not limitation, alternative configurations of the present invention may be utilized in accordance with the teachings herein. Accordingly, the invention is not limited to what has been precisely shown and described. The specific embodiments disclosed herein may be further limited in the claims using a language consisting of … … or consisting essentially of … …. When used in a claim, the transitional term 'consisting of … …' excludes any element, step, or component not specified in the claim, whether submitted or added according to a modification. The transitional term 'consisting essentially of … …' limits the scope of the claims to materials or steps specified and materials or steps that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristics. The embodiments of the invention so claimed are inherently or explicitly described and implemented herein. References to sequence identifiers (such as those starting from NM) refer to database accession numbers and the following sequences, as they are found in 2013, 4, 18. TABLE 7 BLCA bladder urethra cancer BRCA invasive breast cancer CESC cervical squamous cell carcinoma COAD colon adenocarcinoma GBM glioblastoma HNSC head and neck squamous carcinoma Kirc kidney clear cell carcinoma KIRP renal papillary cell carcinoma of kidney LAML acute myelogenous leukemia LGG low grade glioma LUAD lung adenocarcinoma LUSC lung squamous cell carcinoma OV ovarian cancer PAAD pancreatic cancer READ rectal adenocarcinoma SKCM cutaneous melanoma STAD stomach adenocarcinoma THCA thyroid cancer UCEC endometrial cancer of uterus

### Claims

Claims (9) 1. Use of a probe set for the preparation of a kit for detecting a TPM1/ALK gene fusion in a biological sample of bladder urothelial cancer, wherein: the probe set comprises a first primer and a second primer; The first primer is complementary to the TPM1 gene; and The second primer is complementary to the ALK gene; Wherein a fusion of the TPM1 gene and the ALK gene is detected by the presence of the amplicon generated by the first primer and the second primer, wherein the fusion breakpoint is the TPM1/ALK breakpoint sequence represented by SEQ ID NO. 1, and wherein amplicon library preparation for generating the amplicon is performed by using a single amplification reaction. 2. The use according to claim 1, wherein said detecting is performed by a method comprising the steps of: contacting a nucleic acid sample from a bladder urothelial cancer subject with a reaction mixture comprising the first and second primers. 3. Use according to claim 1, wherein: detecting the TPM1/ALK gene fusion by the presence of the amplicon generated by the probe set. 4. The use according to claim 1, wherein the detection is performed by a method comprising the steps of: -amplifying a nucleic acid comprising a TPM1/ALK gene fusion from a sample, wherein the sample is obtained from a bladder urothelial cancer subject; and -Detecting the presence of said gene fusion by contacting said set of probes; wherein each probe hybridizes specifically to the nucleic acid, or observes the presence of a non-native or non-native chemical structure in the nucleic acid. 5. The use of claim 4, wherein said method comprises next generation sequencing. 6. A kit, comprising: A probe set; Wherein each probe specifically hybridizes to a nucleic acid comprising a TPM1/ALK breakpoint sequence represented by SEQ ID NO:1, wherein detecting a fusion of the TPM1 gene and the ALK gene using the kit comprises detecting the presence of an amplicon generated by the set of probes, and wherein amplicon library preparation for generating the amplicon is performed by using a single amplification reaction. 7. The kit of claim 6, wherein each probe comprises: -a nucleic acid sequence configured to specifically hybridize to the nucleic acid comprising a breakpoint; and -Covalently bound to a detectable moiety of said nucleic acid sequence. 8. The kit of claim 6, wherein each probe comprises: A deoxyribonucleic acid sequence comprising at least one deoxyuridine residue in place of a deoxythymidine residue. 9. The kit of claim 6, wherein the set of probes comprises a first primer and a second primer; the first primer is complementary to the TPM1 gene and the second primer is complementary to the ALK gene.
